Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. If we are unable to attract and retain subscribers, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. We are primarily in the business of selling wireless communications services to subscribers, and our success in that business is based on our ability to attract new subscribers and retain current subscribers. Our business strategy to attract and retain subscribers historically has been to differentiate our regional brand relative to our primary competitors, most of whom are national providers, based on offering our customers savings and service. Although attracting new subscribers and retaining existing subscribers are both important to the financial viability of our business, there is an added focus on customer retention because the costs of adding a new subscriber, including but not limited to commissions, equipment subsidies and other sales incentives, are significantly higher than the costs associated with retaining an existing subscriber. If our business strategy is unsuccessful and we are unable to differentiate our products and services from those offered by our competitors, we may have difficulty attracting new customers and retaining current subscribers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results due to reduced revenues and higher incremental operating costs. The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development and technological innovations, which could increase our operating costs and diminish our ability to attract and retain subscribers, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, including but not limited to 4G LTE or other technologies. A number of our competitors have deployed next generation technologies that are focused on the provisioning of mobile data services with higher speeds, which increasingly are becoming a critical component of many wireless service provider offerings. We believe our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services, such as higher-speed data services, that meet customer demands. As new technologies are developed and deployed by competitors in our service area, some of our subscribers may select other providers’ offerings based on price, capabilities and personal preferences. We may not be able to respond to future changes and obtain access to new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. To accommodate the next generation of applications and streaming video speeds significantly above that of our current technology will require substantial technological changes to our network and may require additional spectrum in certain markets. We expect the development of these new technologies, products and services may cause us to spend considerably more in capital expenditures than we have anticipated and incur incremental operating costs. To the extent that we do not keep pace with technological advances, fail to offer technologies comparable to those of our competitors or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose existing customers and experience a decline in revenues and net income. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of our largest wholesale customer, Sprint, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We generated approximately 36% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 from our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint. If we were to lose Sprint as a customer, or if Sprint were to become financially unable to pay our charges, our business, financial condition and operating results would suffer material adverse consequences due to lost revenues and decreased cash flows. Additionally, if we are unable to modify, extend or expand the Strategic Network Alliance, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The pricing arrangements under our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint may fluctuate, which could result in lower revenues or a decline in the historical growth of our wholesale revenues. Under the Strategic Network Alliance, our wholesale revenues are the greater of $9.0 million per month or the revenues derived based on voice and data usage of our network by Sprint priced at the applicable rates and terms for each of the service categories. All of the rate elements generally fluctuate for the periods specified for each service under the agreement using a formula tied to a national wireless retail customer revenue yield and a national retail data revenue yield based on CDMA subscribers and their voice and data usage. Sprint prices its national calling plans based on its business objectives and it could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business or may result in reduction of usage from Sprint customers. Accordingly, our wholesale revenues could decline from the 2012 monthly levels and could be reduced to the $9.0 million minimum in future periods, which would impact our long-term profitability. 12 Table of Contents Under the Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint, there are automatic rate resets which could, and do, result in disputes from time to time. Refer to Strategic Network Alliance included in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our unresolved data rate reset dispute. There is a dispute resolution process provided in the agreement which historically the parties have used in order to resolve open disputes. However, there can be no assurance that any current or future disputes will be resolved to our satisfaction and it is possible that the dispute resolution process might yield a result that would potentially lower Sprint’s payment obligations or require payments by the Company to Sprint, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A decrease in the usage of our network by Sprint customers could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are the exclusive provider of digital PCS services to all Sprint CDMA customers in our western Virginia and West Virginia service area. Sprint could make changes to its subscriber contracts and national calling plans that could result in a decline in their overall subscriber base or Sprint may choose to manage its customers or distribution in our local territories differently or take steps that reduce customer data or voice usage of our network. Additionally, we could experience migration by Sprint of its customers to non-CDMA technology or see a decline in the usage of our network by Sprint, if we are unable to meet customer demand for data services, or fail to successfully design, build and deploy new technologies and services. If any or all of such events were to occur, we could experience decreased usage of our networks by Sprint customers, and our business could materially adversely affected. Our largest competitors and Sprint may build networks in our markets or use alternative suppliers, which may result in decreased revenues and severe price-based competition. The national carriers are investing substantial capital to deploy the necessary equipment to deliver 3G and 4G LTE enhanced services, and our current roaming partners, larger wireless providers and Sprint ultimately may build or expand their own wireless networks in our service areas or obtain roaming services from alternative sources. If Sprint were to launch its own PCS network or source an alternative provider in our market after any termination of the Strategic Network Alliance, it would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, if any current or potential roaming partner or new alternative facilities-based provider were to launch or expand networks in our markets, we could experience increased price competition and potential loss of roaming business, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our inability to obtain or gain access to additional spectrum, including the licensing of additional spectrum by the FCC, would adversely affect our ability to compete in providing wireless services. We anticipate we will need to acquire or gain access to additional spectrum in order to continue our customer growth, maintain our quality of service, meet increasing customer demands and deploy new technologies. The wireless industry in general is experiencing a radio spectrum shortage and there is no assurance that any additional spectrum will be made available by Congress or the FCC, through auction or otherwise, on a timely basis, on terms and conditions or under service rules that we consider suitable for our commercial uses. Any additional spectrum made available from the FCC or from third parties may not be compatible with our existing spectrum, or we may not be able to acquire such spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all. Furthermore, the continued aggregation of spectrum by the largest nationwide carriers who, in the past, generally have been disinclined to divest or lease spectrum in secondary market transactions, may reduce our ability to obtain or gain access to additional spectrum from other carriers. Congress recently passed legislation providing the FCC the authority to conduct an incentive auction of broadcast spectrum, as well as up to 65 MHz of additional spectrum, including the 20 MHz AWS-3 Block and up to 15 MHz of the AWS-2 Block. The FCC recently has announced plans to utilize this authority to auction broadcast spectrum pursuant to an incentive auction, as well as to auction the 10 MHz PCS H Block. The opportunity to obtain or gain access to additional spectrum is particularly important to expand the capacity of our systems, in light of the increased consumption of mobile data services by consumers, and to allow us to offer new services. However, the FCC has taken, and may take further actions, to impose new construction requirements and other conditions on the use of broadband spectrum licenses, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements that may make it less attractive or economical for us. In addition, the FCC may refuse to recognize an acquisition and transfer of spectrum licenses from others. The availability of additional blocks of spectrum and additional flexibility with respect to the use of currently available spectrum could cause the technology we use to become obsolete. The auction and licensing of new spectrum, or relaxation of requirements on or flexibility with respect to existing spectrum licenses, may adversely impact our business by creating new competitors or enhancing the ability of our existing competitors to offer services we cannot offer, or offer on a competitive basis, requiring us to expend additional funds to acquire spectrum necessary for continued growth, or restricting our growth because we cannot obtain or gain access to additional spectrum. Each of these factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of handsets and accessories, or the products and services we require to operate our network successfully. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors, including Apple, Samsung and others, for handsets and accessories. Due to the scale of our operations, we may have difficulty obtaining specific types of handsets, applications and content in a timely manner, or at all. The lack of availability to us of some of the latest and most popular handsets, applications, and content, whether as a result of exclusive dealings, volume discounting, or otherwise, could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain our customers, especially as our competitors continue to aggressively offer handset promotions with increased features, functionality and applications. As the national carriers move to 4G handsets, the availability of 3G handsets may decline and our costs may increase. In addition, rapid technological changes may result in our having to discount older handset models on a quicker basis than we originally anticipated. If our suppliers experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products we require to operate our businesses successfully. To the extent we cannot effectively manage our handset inventories to meet the demands of our customers, we may not be able to attract and retain subscribers and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We also rely on a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Inc. and others, related to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience manufacturing delays, interruptions or other problems delivering equipment and network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. If these companies experience financial or other problems, alternative suppliers and vendors may become necessary and we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. We may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy and other costs than we anticipate in attracting new and retaining current subscribers. Subscribers are purchasing data-centric devices and smartphones, including the iPhone, as technological innovations occur. We subsidize a significant portion of the price of wireless handsets and incur sales commissions and other costs on the sale or upgrade of handsets. The cost of these multi-functional handsets continues to increase as the number of features and applications they support increase. In addition, we believe we generally pay more, on average, to purchase handsets than many of our national competitors, who buy from manufacturers in larger volumes. However, end user and out the door pricing have not changed substantially, resulting in higher equipment subsidies. As more subscribers purchase or upgrade to new data-centric devices and smartphones, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected during the period of the sale or upgrade. Also, if we do not continue to subsidize the cost of the handsets for upgrades, subscribers could choose to deactivate the service and move to other carriers. The loss of or inability to obtain voice and/or data roaming agreements at cost-effective rates could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on roaming agreements, primarily with Sprint and also with other wireless carriers, to provide nationwide coverage. These agreements are subject to renewal and termination rights, and if such agreements are terminated or not renewed, or the rates charged to us increase substantially, we may be required to pay significant amounts of money for roaming service and we may be unable to provide competitive regional and nationwide wireless service to our customers on a cost-effective basis. In addition, if we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for nationwide coverage for the services they want, it could reduce the number of new customers we add to our services and may increase our customer churn. Any inability to retain or obtain such roaming agreements at cost-effective rates may limit our ability to compete effectively for subscribers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Future regulatory changes also may affect our ability to enter into new or maintain existing roaming agreements on competitive terms. We have encountered substantial difficulty attempting to negotiate what we believe are reasonable roaming rates for data services with a number of national carriers. We believe this is a result of the continuing consolidation that has occurred within the telecommunications industry, which has resulted in substantial amounts of spectrum being amassed by a few industry participants. We believe that the rates charged by the largest carriers for voice and data roaming services are higher than the rates such carriers charge to other roaming partners and resellers, and in some cases higher than they charge their retail customers, and that such carriers, due to their nationwide networks, do not have the necessary incentives to provide both voice and data roaming on reasonable terms and conditions. If we are unable to negotiate reasonable voice and data roaming rates, and in the absence of regulatory action to prevent the warehousing and effective blocking of access to the use of spectrum at reasonable roaming rates, we may be unable to provide nationwide roaming services to our customers on a cost-effective basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents We rely on indirect distribution channels to sell our products and services. If we are unable to attract, incentivize and retain these third-party dealers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase. We have approximately 430 indirect distribution retail locations. Many of our indirect distribution outlets are not exclusive dealers, which means that these dealers may sell other third-party products and services in direct competition with us. As more of our competitors use third-party dealers to sell their products and services, competition for dealers intensifies and larger wireless carriers may be able to switch our indirect distribution agents to their products and services by presenting more lucrative commissions and other benefits, due to a wider variety of products and services offered by these competitors. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining dealers and any inability to do so could have a negative effect on our ability to attract and obtain customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, a number of dealers that sell our products and services operate a significant number of separate locations. The loss of one or more of such dealers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt in future years and fund our other business needs, and may require additional capital to upgrade and operate our business, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, as of December 31, 2012 was $494.1 million. The aggregate scheduled maturities of such long-term debt, based on the contractual terms of the instruments, are $5.4 million in 2013, $5.3 million in 2014, $150.3 million in 2015, $3.6 million in 2016 and 2017, and $331.6 million thereafter. In addition, due to the rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services and the intensely competitive market in which we operate, we intend to expand the technical requirements of our wireless network, including our plan to upgrade portions of our network to 4G LTE advanced technologies, and to build out other areas within our territories, which will require additional capital. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2012 were $71.6 million. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, and to fund capital expenditures will depend largely upon our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations, including from our wholesale relationship with Sprint, and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us under the NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts or fund our other liquidity needs, including any unanticipated capital expenditures. Any failure to pay our debts or fund our liquidity needs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of December 31, 2012, our total outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $494.1 million. The significant amount of cash required to service our contractual obligations could substantially limit our resources for alternative capital needs by, among other things: • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities, potentially decreasing our ability to effectively compete in our industry; and • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because our borrowings have variable interest rates, which could result in higher interest expense if interest rates rise. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our regular quarterly cash dividend, reducing or terminating the amount of our stock repurchase program, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement limits our subsidiaries’ ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could lead to our inability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions on our subsidiaries. These covenants and restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial requirements relating to the business of our subsidiaries; • require our subsidiaries to use a portion of “Excess Cash Flow” (as defined in the agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio exceeds specified levels; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us to grant dividends. These covenants and restrictions could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default in respect of the NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement could be declared immediately due and payable, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. We are exposed to certain market risks including the impact of interest rate changes, due to our substantial level of indebtedness. If interest rates for our long-term debt increase, our future cash interest expense could be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. See Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates. Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, future borrowing costs and access to capital markets. Our credit risk is evaluated by independent rating agencies, which could downgrade our credit ratings in the future. Any downgrade could affect our ability to raise money in the future or increase the cost of new borrowings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. An increase in mergers and strategic alliances has led to intense competition from other telecommunications providers, which could cause us to lose customers and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Consolidation in the wireless industry and resulting economies of scale has led to the two largest providers of wireless services dominating the market, and gives such providers the ability to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets and to place restrictions on providing roaming services to other carriers, such as us, on reasonable terms or at all. The wireless industry also includes alternative facilities-based providers of wireless services which may now compete directly with existing terrestrial wireless networks, such as ours. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge and any increased competition from existing and additional service providers in our local territories could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. Also, further industry consolidation of our roaming partners and access providers could adversely affect the rates and access fees we are charged. As a result, the evolving competitive landscape in our territories may harm and restrict the manner in which we operate our business, which could negatively affect our revenues, operating margins and/or profitability. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and distractions from our core business. In the past, we have entered, and may in the future enter, into strategic transactions, including strategic supply and service agreements and acquisitions of other assets and businesses. Any such transactions can be risky, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources and may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures, including: • difficulties in integrating acquired technologies and operations into our business while maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility; 16 Table of Contents • increased costs and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure controls and procedures, and of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Exchange Act; • increased costs and complexity in applying GAAP correctly; • difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records and weak financial controls; and • inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology. The anticipated benefits of any of our strategic transactions may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock at our current level or at all in the future. Although we currently intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock, any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments or to make other distributions to our stockholders, including by means of a stock repurchase. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are restricted by the NTELOS Inc. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our business is led by a small number of key executive officers, and directed by a core group of senior level financial and operational management, technical and sales personnel (“qualified personnel”). We believe that our future success depends in substantial part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly knowledgeable qualified personnel. We believe that competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future sufficient to support our continued growth. We have experienced occasional difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such difficulties in the future. In addition, at this time, the exercise price of a substantial portion of our stock options is above, and in some cases significantly above, the current trading prices of our common stock, which we believe negatively impacts our retention of qualified personnel. The departure of, or our inability to attract or retain, highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 92% of our cell sites were installed on leased facilities, with approximately 42% of the leased facilities installed on facilities owned by two tower companies, American Tower and Crown Communications, pursuant to license agreements, lease agreements, master lease agreements or master license agreements that govern the general terms of our use of that company’s facilities. If a license agreement, lease agreement, master lease agreement or master license agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support our use of its facilities, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these tower companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. If any of the tower companies with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use facilities leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our costs and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. 17 Table of Contents A disruption to our operations or those of other companies critical to our network operations could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose revenues and incur expenses. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities including third-party network providers; • power surges or outages; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose revenues and incur expenses. Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. In general, we do not manufacture any of the equipment or software used in our telecommunications businesses and we do not own any patents. Instead, we purchase the infrastructure equipment, handsets and software used in our business from third parties and we obtain licenses to use the associated intellectual property. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide variety of patents and other intellectual property rights. We and some of our suppliers and service providers may receive assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. The manufacturers and suppliers that provide us with the equipment and technology we use in our business may agree to indemnify us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not always have such indemnification protections in place and, even if we have such agreements in place, we may not be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. In addition, the manufacturers and suppliers also may require us to indemnify them against infringement claims asserted against them with respect to equipment they sell to us. Whether or not infringement claims are valid or successful, such claims could adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services to avoid claims of infringement. If we are unable to maintain or improve our results of operations, we could face the possibility of charges for impairments of long-lived or indefinite-lived assets. Long-lived and indefinite-lived assets represent the single largest asset class on our consolidated balance sheets, accounting for approximately 75% of total assets. As of December 31, 2012, we had $303.1 million of property, plant and equipment, net, $132.0 million of radio spectrum licenses and $73.7 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book amount may not be recoverable. If we are unable to maintain or improve our results of operations and cash flows in some or all of our markets, a review could lead to a material impairment charge in our consolidated financial statements. 18 Table of Contents The impact of economic downturns or other conditions, including any government mandated spending cutbacks, leading to a decline in consumer discretionary spending may harm our business and materially adversely impact our operating results. Economic conditions may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. The continued impact of economic downturns on our customers, including unemployment and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to further reduce spending. If demand for our services decreases, deactivations might increase and our revenues could be affected. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to pay for services they have purchased and lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We also are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could negatively affect such vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by such third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of our licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. Our wireless licenses are generally valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. If we fail to file for renewal at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to provide or continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. Additionally, many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While the licensees have generally met “safe harbor” standards for ensuring such benchmarks are met, we have relied on, and will in the future rely on, “substantial service” thresholds for meeting build-out requirements. In such cases, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. The telecommunications industry is subject to legislative changes or regulatory requirements, which could affect our ability to compete and offer services. As competition develops and technology evolves, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will continue in the future as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. A number of recent actions indicate that the FCC will be proactive and potentially increase the regulatory requirements of wireless service providers. At this time, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting the telecommunications industry may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with regulatory mandates could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. We must comply with a number of regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, E-911, CALEA and the customer privacy mandates of the Customer Proprietary Network Information rules. We also must comply with regulations pertaining to the provisionally winning bid of our subsidiary in Mobility Fund Phase I. The FCC recently has taken an expansive view with respect to the scope of its authority over wireless carriers, which may lead to increased regulation of such carriers in the future. In addition, we must pay a variety of federal and state surcharges and fees on our gross revenues derived by interstate and intrastate services, the amount of which may be subject to review and revision in the future. Failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. On January 18, 2011, new FCC rules took effect that require us and other carriers using handset-based technologies for E-911 location purposes to eventually transmit, within 50 meters, the location of the caller in 67% of calls made in the carrier’s choice of either a county or a PSAP area and to transmit, within 150 meters, the location of the caller in 80% of the calls made in either such county or PSAP area. The carriers have two years from the effective date of the new rules to implement these requirements and carriers may exclude 15% of counties or PSAP heavily forested areas. These new rules reflect a general consensus between the wireless industry and the public safety community. In addition, the FCC, in December 2010, adopted net neutrality rules for mobile broadband Internet providers in which such providers are required to (1) make available relevant information regarding network management practices to the consumers who purchase their services, and to content, application and service providers who seek access to a carrier’s network and (2) refrain from blocking consumers from accessing lawful websites or applications that compete with the provider’s voice or 19 Table of Contents video telephony services, subject to a reasonable network management exception. These rules are subject to interpretation and have not been applied by the FCC or reviewed by any Court. Although we are taking steps to meet the new requirements, there can be no assurance we will be in compliance with these new rules on a timely basis at reasonable costs, or if at all. The FCC, together with the FAA, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities, and is considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. We also estimate our ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of NOL carryforwards and tax credits. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our taxes. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our judgments or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and reserves. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense or operating taxes, and therefore could have a material impact on our net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. President Obama’s administration has announced proposals for other U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. There are other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by Congress that could affect our tax rate or our tax liabilities. Any of these changes could affect our net income and cash flows. If the spin-off of Lumos Networks does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our stockholders and us. In connection with the Lumos Networks spin-off, we received a private letter ruling from the IRS stating that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 361 of the IRC. In addition, we obtained an opinion of counsel from Troutman Sanders LLP that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of Lumos Networks and our business. The IRS letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. The IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would be subject to tax on gain, if any, as if we had sold the common stock of Lumos Networks in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, each of our stockholders that received stock of Lumos Networks from us would be treated as if the stockholder had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of Lumos Network stock that was distributed to the stockholder, which generally would be taxed as a dividend to the extent of the stockholder’s pro rata share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and then treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s basis in our common stock and finally as capital gain from the sale or exchange of our common stock. Furthermore, even if the spin-off were otherwise to qualify for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 361 of the IRC, it may be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) under Section 355(e) of the IRC, if the spin-off was later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in us or Lumos Networks. For this purpose, any acquisitions of our stock or of Lumos Network’s common stock within the period beginning two years before the spin-off and ending two years after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Lumos Networks may be able to rebut that presumption. Increases in our costs of providing benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. We are required to make assumptions and estimates that include the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, the Company’s expected level of contributions to the plans, 20 Table of Contents the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long-term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If our benefit plans’ costs increase, due to adverse changes in the U.S. securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medial cost trends, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected Our stock price has historically been volatile and may continue to be volatile and may not reflect our actual operations and performance. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors unrelated to our performance, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual operating results or those of our competitors, including announcements of subscribers and churn rates; • changes in financial estimates by us or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • speculation in the media or investment community about, or actual changes in, our current or future relationship with Sprint; • changes in general or industry specific market conditions, trends or governmental regulations and approvals; • conditions, trends or changes in the securities marketplace or stock market performance in the United States, including trading volumes; • adverse changes in economic conditions, including the cost and availability or perceived availability of additional capital and market perceptions relating to our access to this capital; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • technological innovations by us or our competitors, including the availability of 4G LTE; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, significant contracts or divestitures; • announcements of investigations, regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • changes in domestic and global economic and political factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates. Stock price volatility and sustained decreases in our share price could subject our stockholders to losses and us to takeover bids or lead to action by the NASDAQ. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Quadrangle continues to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2012, Quadrangle beneficially owned approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of the eight directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, including a representative of Quadrangle being Chairman of the Board of Directors, Quadrangle continues to have the ability to influence corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Quadrangle’s interests as a stockholder may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. Additionally, such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and, as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares registered for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. 21 Table of Contents We previously granted Quadrangle the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock. In June 2012, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which became effective in August 2012, in which we registered for resale the shares owned by Quadrangle pursuant to the registration rights agreed to in the Shareholders Agreement among the Company and Quadrangle. Accordingly, the number of shares registered is substantial and the sale of these shares and any other shares with tag-along registration rights in secondary offerings while the registration statement remains effective may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 