Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. If we are not able to attract and retain wireless subscribers, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. We are primarily in the business of selling wireless communications services to subscribers, and our economic success in that business is based on our ability to attract new subscribers and retain current subscribers. If we are unable to attract and retain wireless subscribers, our financial performance could be impaired. Since 2010, we have experienced modest decreases in our total retail subscriber base reflecting both a decrease in gross additions and an increase in the number of subscribers which are disconnecting, referred to as “churn.” Subscriber losses and a high rate of churn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because they result in lost revenues and cash flow. Although attracting new subscribers and retention of existing subscribers are important to the financial viability of our business, there is an added focus on retention because the cost of adding a new subscriber is higher than the cost associated with retention of an existing subscriber. While we expect to incur expenses to attract new subscribers, improve subscriber retention and reduce churn, there can be no assurance that our efforts will result in new subscribers or a lower rate of subscriber churn. If we are unsuccessful in adding new customers, retaining existing customers and lowering churn, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The loss of our largest wholesale customer, Sprint, or a decrease in its usage may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. Sprint accounted for approximately 32% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. If we were to lose Sprint as a customer or if Sprint became financially unable to pay our charges, our revenues would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, if Sprint’s financial condition should worsen in a material manner, our business would suffer material adverse consequences which could include termination or revision of our Strategic Network Alliance. Migration by Sprint of customers to non-CDMA technology could result in a decline in the usage of our network by Sprint and could cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. A decline in Sprint’s subscriber base could have an adverse effect on its long-term growth, financial condition and strategic direction, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our wireless wholesale revenues under the Strategic Network Alliance. Additionally, if Sprint makes changes to its national plans that drives lower customer usage our wholesale revenues would be impacted. The pricing arrangement under our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint may fluctuate which could result in lower revenues or a decline in the historical growth of our wholesale wireless revenues. Under the Strategic Network Alliance, our wholesale revenues are the greater of $9.0 million per month or the revenues derived based on voice and data usage by Sprint of our network priced at the applicable rates and terms for each of the services categories. Revenues from this contract exceeded the $9.0 million monthly minimum for each month of 2011. All of the rate elements generally fluctuate for the periods specified for each service under the agreement under a formula tied to a national wireless retail customer revenue yield and a national retail data revenue yield based on CDMA subscribers and their voice, 3G and EVDO usage. Sprint prices its national calling plans based on its business objectives and it could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business or may result in reduction of usage from Sprint customers. Accordingly, our wholesale revenues could decline from the 2011 monthly levels and could be reduced to the $9.0 million minimum in future periods which would impact our long term profitability. Additionally, there are automatic rate resets in the agreement, the provisions of which could, and do, come into question from time to time. There is a dispute resolution process provided in the agreement which, to date, has adequately resolved any questions that have arisen. However, there can be no assurance that any current or future disputes will be resolved to our satisfaction and it is possible that the dispute resolution process might yield a result that would potentially lower Sprint’s payment obligations in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development, introduction of new technologies, substantial regulatory changes and intense competition, any of which could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, such as LTE or other technologies; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; and • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets. We expect competition to continue to intensify as a result of possible new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these trends may cause us to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to keep existing, and attract new, customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, wireless service providers, internet access providers, long distance carriers and other providers of communication services have brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In particular, the largest wireless carriers have national networks with significantly larger footprints than us, covering substantially all of the United States population. In addition, consolidation in the wireless industry has led to the two largest providers of wireless services serving over 15 Table of Contents 60% of all United States subscribers, which allows such providers the ability to dominate the wireless market though exclusive handset arrangements and restrictions on providing roaming services for other carriers, such as us, on reasonable terms. Due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities, along with additional industry consolidation, could make it more difficult to attract and retain customers, maintain operating margins and/or market share. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, with a number of our competitors deploying next generation technologies, including but limited to 4G technologies. These technologies increasingly are focused on the provisioning of mobile data services, which increasingly are becoming a critical component of many wireless service provider offerings. We believe our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services, such as robust data services, that meet customer demands. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technologies, including 4G, on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to meet customer demand for data services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Continued deployment of next generation technology by our competition could cause the technology used on our network to become less competitive. We may not be able to respond to future changes and implement new technology on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. To accommodate next generation of applications and streaming video speeds significantly above that of our current 3G technology will require significant technological changes to our network and additional spectrum in certain areas. To the extent that we do not keep pace with technological advances, fail to offer technologies comparable to those of our competitors or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose existing customers and experience a decline in revenues and net income. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As competition develops and technology evolves, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry continues to change rapidly. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will persist in the future, as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological, and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. Over the past few years, there have been significant changes in the composition of the FCC. A number of recent actions indicate that the FCC will be proactive and potentially increase the regulation of wireless services. At this time, we cannot predict with any certainty the nature and extent of any such increase in regulation. Any changes in regulations applied to us or the services we offer may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the wireless industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict. As technological innovations come to market, we may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate attracting new and upgrading existing subscribers. As technological innovations occur, more subscribers are purchasing data-centric and smart phones. We subsidize a significant portion of the price of wireless handsets and incur sales commissions on the sale or upgrade of handsets. The cost of handsets continues to increase as features, functionality, and the number of applications they support increase. However, end user and out the door pricing have not substantially changed, resulting in higher handset subsidies. Furthermore, we generally pay more to purchase handsets than many of our national competitors who buy from manufacturers in larger volumes. If more subscribers purchase or upgrade to new wireless handsets than we project, our operating results would be adversely affected during the period of the sale or upgrade. Rapid technological changes may also result in our having to discount older handset models on a quicker basis than we originally anticipated. In addition, as the national carriers move to 4G handsets, the availability of 3G handsets may decline and our costs may increase. 16 Table of Contents If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase. Many wireless providers in the U.S. have experienced, and have sought to prevent, a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including limited network coverage, network reliability issues such as blocked or dropped calls, handset selection, handset quality, inability to roam onto third-party networks at competitive rates, or at all, price competition and affordability, customer care concerns, and other competitive factors. In addition, customers could elect to switch to another carrier that has service offerings available on newer network technology. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer turnover will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our largest competitors and Sprint may build networks in our markets or use alternative suppliers, which may result in decreased revenues and severe price-based competition. Our current roaming partners, larger wireless providers and Sprint ultimately may build their own wireless networks in our service areas or obtain roaming services from alternative sources. In addition to controlling the iDEN network as a result of the acquisition of Nextel Partners, Sprint controls 10 MHz of spectrum within our service territory in the 1900 MHz PCS band. While the terms of our agreement generally prohibit Sprint Spectrum L.P. from directly or indirectly commencing construction of, contracting for or launching its own CDMA network in the Strategic Network Alliance service area until 18 months prior to termination of the agreement, the initial term of which ends on July 31, 2015, it would adversely affect our revenues and operating results if Sprint or another wireless provider were to do so. Should this occur, use of our networks would decrease and our roaming and/or wholesale revenues would be adversely affected. Once a digital wireless system is built, there are only marginal costs to carrying an additional call, so a larger number of facility-based competitors in our service areas could stimulate significant price competition, as has occurred in many areas in the U.S., with a resulting reduction in our revenues and operating results. The loss of or inability to obtain voice and/or data roaming agreements at cost-effective rates could have an adverse impact on our performance. The market for wireless services has increasingly required that we provide nationwide coverage to our customers, both for voice and data services. We currently rely on roaming agreements primarily with Sprint and also with other wireless carriers to provide service in areas not covered by our network. These agreements are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. If we are unable to maintain or renew these agreements, our ability to continue to provide competitive regional and nationwide wireless service to our customers could be impaired. We have encountered substantial difficulty in connection with attempting to negotiate what we believe are reasonable roaming rates for data services with a number of national carriers. We believe this is a result of the continuing consolidation that has occurred within the telecommunications industry which has resulted in substantial amounts of spectrum being amassed by a few industry participants. We believe that the rates charged by the largest carriers for voice and data roaming services are higher than the rates such carriers charge to other roaming partners and resellers, and that such carriers, due to their nationwide networks, do not have the necessary incentives to provide both voice and data roaming on reasonable terms and conditions. If we are unable to negotiate reasonable voice and data roaming rates, and in the absence of regulatory action to prevent the warehousing and effective blocking of access to the use of spectrum at reasonable roaming rates, we may be unable to provide nationwide roaming services to our customers or be unable to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. In addition, under the terms of our Strategic Network Alliance, we have favorable roaming rates with Sprint. If these roaming agreements are terminated, the roaming rates that we are charged may increase and, accordingly, our cash flow and operating results may decline. Any inability to retain or obtain such roaming agreements at cost-effective rates may limit our ability to compete effectively for subscribers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2011, our total outstanding debt on a consolidated basis, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $458.4 million. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; 17 Table of Contents • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities, potentially decreasing our ability to effectively compete in our industry; and • because some of our borrowings have variable interest rates, exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations which could result in higher interest expense if interest rates rise. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries’ operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating our quarterly cash dividend, terminating or reducing the amount of our stock repurchase program, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility limits our subsidiaries’ ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect our ability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial covenants and restrictions on our subsidiaries. These covenants and restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial requirements relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; • require our subsidiaries to use a portion of “excess cash flow” (as defined in the agreement) to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio exceeds specified levels; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make advances to us to grant dividends. These covenants and restrictions could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase stock, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default in respect of the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility could be declared immediately due and payable which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. Our substantial debt exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. We purchased a 3% London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) interest rate cap contract in December 2010 which prevents us from paying more than 6% on $320.0 million of our indebtedness. Therefore, this prevents us from paying more than $6.6 million of additional interest per year on $320.0 million of our secured term loan should LIBOR rates go above 3% until August 2012, the expiry date of the cap contract. We are directly exposed to changes in LIBOR on the remaining $137.3 million of our secured term loan. We cannot predict whether interest rates for long term debt will increase, and thus, we cannot assure you that our future cash interest expense will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For more specific information related to our exposure to changes in interest rates, see “Part II, Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 18 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. Our total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, as of December 31, 2011 was $458.4 million. The aggregate scheduled maturities of such long-term debt are $4.4 million for 2012, $5.0 million in 2013 and 2014, and $447.5 million in 2015. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, fund planned capital expenditures, pay quarterly cash dividends and expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts or fund our other liquidity needs. Any failure to pay our debts or fund our liquidity needs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain or improve our results of operations, we could face the possibility of charges for impairments of long-lived or indefinite-lived assets. As of December 31, 2011, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $77.0 million (approximately 12% of total assets) and approximately $132.3 million of radio spectrum licenses. We test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book amount may not be recoverable. If we are unable to maintain or improve our results of operations and cash flows in some or all of our markets, a review could lead to a material impairment in our consolidated financial statements. We may require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to build out and operate our planned networks, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. We require additional capital to build out and operate our wireless networks and for general working capital needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2011 were $58.3 million. Because of our intensely competitive market, we may be required, including under the terms of the Strategic Network Alliance, to expand the technical requirements of our wireless network or to build out additional areas within our territories that could result in increased capital expenditures. Any such unanticipated capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Economic conditions may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Unfavorable economic conditions, including a recession and disruptions to the credit and financial markets, could cause customers to further reduce spending. If demand for our services decreases, our revenues could be adversely affected and deactivations might increase. In addition, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to pay for services they have purchased. Any of the above could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers could also adversely affect such vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in quality or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by such third parties could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of our licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. Our wireless licenses are generally valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Between 2005 and 2009, we applied for and were granted renewal of all of our licenses. If we fail to file for renewal at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to provide or continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While the licensees have generally met “safe harbor” standards for ensuring such benchmarks are met, we have relied on, and will in the future rely on, “substantial service” thresholds for meeting build-out requirements. In such cases, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with regulatory mandates could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. We must comply with a number of regulatory requirements, including, but limited to, Enhanced 911 (“E911”), and CALEA and the customer privacy mandates of the Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) rules. The FCC recently has taken an expansive view with respect to the scope of its authority over wireless carriers, which may lead to increase regulation of such carriers in the future. We also must pay a variety of federal and state surcharges and fees on our gross revenues derived by interstate and intrastate services, the amount of which may be subject to review and revision in the future. Failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. On January 18, 2011, new FCC rules took effect that require us and other carriers using handset-based technologies for E-911 location purposes to eventually transmit, within 50 meters, the location of the caller in 67% of calls made in the carrier’s choice of either a county or a PSAP area and to transmit, within 150 meters, the location of the caller in 80% of the calls made in either such county or PSAP area. The carriers have two years from the effective date of the new rules to implement these requirements and carriers may exclude 15% of counties or PSAP heavily forested areas. These new rules reflect a general consensus between the wireless industry and the public safety community. In addition, the FCC, in December 2010, adopted net neutrality rules for mobile broadband Internet providers in which such providers are required to (1) make available relevant information regarding network management practices to the consumers who purchase their services, and to content, application and service providers who seek access to a carrier’s network and (2) refrain for blocking consumers from accessing lawful websites or applications that compete with the provider’s voice or video telephony services, subject to a reasonable network management exception. These rules are subject to interpretation and have not been applied by the FCC or reviewed by any Court. Although we are taking steps to meet the new requirements, there can be no assurance we will be in compliance with these new rules on a timely basis at reasonable costs, or if at all. The FCC, together with the FAA, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC is also considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. The licensing of additional spectrum by the FCC, or our inability to obtain such spectrum, may adversely affect our ability to compete in providing wireless services. The FCC, from time to time, auctions additional radio spectrum that may be suitable for services that compete, directly or indirectly, with our wireless offerings. For example, in August and September of 2006, the FCC auctioned an additional 90 MHz of radio spectrum for “Advanced Wireless Services” that can be used for services like our wireless offerings. In early 2008, the FCC conducted an auction of additional wireless service spectrum in the 700 MHz range. We participated in the 2006 auction but decided not to participate in the 2008 auction. We may participate in other future auctions in order to obtain spectrum necessary to increase the capacity of our systems or to allow us to offer new services. The opportunity to obtain spectrum is particularly important in light of the increased consumption of mobile data services by consumers. In addition, the wireless industry in general is experiencing a spectrum shortage, and there is no assurance that any spectrum will be made available by Congress or the FCC in the near term. The auction of new spectrum may adversely impact our business by creating new competitors, enhancing the ability of our existing competitors to offer services we cannot offer, requiring us to expend additional funds to acquire spectrum necessary for continued growth, or restricting our growth because we cannot acquire additional necessary spectrum. Our inability to acquire additional spectrum may hinder our ability to provide 4G services, as well as maintain the necessary capacity to provide robust data services. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on the use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements that may make it less attractive or economical for us. 20 Table of Contents The FCC’s Recent Intercarrier Compensation and Universal Service Reforms May Have a Negative Impact on Our Business The FCC recently adopted an Order that significantly reforms the existing intercarrier compensation and universal service regimes. The revised intercarrier compensation regime includes a transition period in which the rates for the termination of non-local traffic will decrease over a transition period specified by the FCC, culminating in all traffic being exchanged at a rate of bill-and-keep, meaning that carriers will not charge each other for the exchange of traffic. The termination of local traffic exchanged between CMRS carriers and LECs will be at bill-and-keep by July 2012. It is unclear at this time what economic effect the FCC’s new intercarrier compensation regime will have on us. However, it is possible that the new regime will decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls for other carriers on our network. In addition, the FCC adopted a significant overhaul of the universal service regime. Our wireless operations have received funding from the universal service fund in a number of states. However, the FCC has revised the mechanisms, criteria and requirements for the distributions of such funds. We are unable to predict the effect such revisions will have on our business or our ability to collect universal service funds in the future, but it possible that the funds we have received in the past may decrease going forward. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 92% of our cell sites were installed on leased facilities, with approximately 42% of the leased facilities installed on facilities owned by two tower companies, American Tower and Crown Communications. A large portion of these cell sites are leased from a small number of large tower companies, including American Tower and Crown Communications, pursuant to license agreements, lease agreements, master lease agreements or master license agreements that govern the general terms of our use of that company’s facilities. If a license agreement, lease agreement, master lease agreement or master license agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support our use of its facilities, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these tower companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. If any of the tower companies with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use facilities leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be required to divert a substantial part of our employees’ and management team’s time in order to satisfy our obligations to perform certain agreements relating to the spin-off of our wireline business, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve our operating objectives. On December 7, 2010 our board of directors approved a plan to separate our wireless and wireline businesses into two publicly traded companies. This separation transaction was completed on October 31, 2011. The Transition Services Agreement that we executed with Lumos Networks requires each party to provide certain specified services to the other party over periods that generally do not exceed twenty-four months from the date of separation. The provision of these services will require substantial amount of time by our employees and management which may divert them from other business concerns. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer currently also serves as the chief executive officer of Lumos Networks. In the event that he is required to spend an inordinate amount of time and effort on matters involving Lumos Networks, we may not be able to fully utilize his services and expertise in our business, which could materially affect our ability to achieve our desired operating results. If we are unable to efficiently complete the separation of certain assets and operations of the wireline business as anticipated, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs which could materially affect our ability to achieve our operating objectives. There are ongoing operational and technical matters that remain in order to completely separate certain assets and operations of the wireline business from the rest of our business. The separation plan requires us to effect the separation of certain information technology platforms and systems, at our expense, up to certain defined limits. Our expectation is to complete this part of the separation plan at costs below such limits. The separation also will require the creation and staffing of operational and corporate functional groups that are currently provided for under the Transition Services Agreement. Until the creation of these separate groups, those employees under the Transition Services Agreement will essentially fulfill the same role for two companies. We may not be able to 21 Table of Contents replace these functions on a timely basis or within the existing cost parameters that we currently operate. If we are unable to efficiently execute this plan we may experience difficulties managing the company effectively or may incur additional costs and those costs may be material, either or both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the spin-off of Lumos Networks does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our stockholders and us. In connection with the Lumos Networks spin-off, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) stating that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 361 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In addition, we obtained an opinion of counsel from Troutman Sanders LLP that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of Lumos Networks and our business. The IRS letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. The IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would be subject to tax on gain, if any, as if we had sold the common stock of Lumos Networks in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, each of our shareholders that received stock of Lumos Networks from us would be treated as if the shareholder had received a distribution equal to the fair market value of Lumos Network stock that was distributed to the shareholder, which generally would be taxed as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s pro rata share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and then treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the shareholder’s basis in our common stock and finally as capital gain from the sale or exchange of our common stock. Furthermore, even if the spin-off were otherwise to qualify for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 361 of the Code, it may be taxable to us (but not to our shareholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code, if the spin-off was later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in us or Lumos Networks. For this purpose, any acquisitions of our stock or of Lumos Network’s common stock within the period beginning two years before the spin-off and ending two years after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Lumos Networks may be able to rebut that presumption. Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results as a wireless only company. The historical financial information we have included in prior filings for periods ended prior to December 31, 2011 may not reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been a wireless only company during the periods presented and may not be indicative of what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be in the future now that we are a wireless only company. Specifically, the financial information does not reflect any inefficiencies associated with being a smaller, wireless only company, including changes in our cost structure and personnel needs. Any difficulty in successfully managing the operations of the business on a smaller, wireless only basis could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As a smaller company, we may not enjoy the same benefits that we did when we were part of a larger organization that included the wireline business. As a consolidated entity, our businesses were able to enjoy certain benefits from the operating diversity, purchasing power, available capital for investments and flexibility in tax planning. After the spin-off of the wireline business, we do not have similar diversity. In addition, we may not have similar purchasing power, credit rating, flexibility in tax planning or access to capital markets. Increased reliance on indirect distribution channels We have approximately 400 indirect distribution locations. Many of our indirect distribution outlets are not exclusive dealers, which means that these dealers may sell other third party products and services in direct competition with us. As more of our competitors use third party dealers to sell their products and services, competition for dealers intensifies and larger competitors are able to offer higher commissions and other benefits. 22 Table of Contents As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining dealers and any inability to do so could have a negative effect on our ability to attract and obtain customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, a number of dealers that sell our products and services operate a significant number of separate locations. The loss of one or more of such dealers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Inc. and others. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities including third-party network providers; • power surges or outages; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated or the third parties may experience interruptions or other problems delivering these systems. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If or when we lose a member or members of our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The unexpected loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and distractions from our core business. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into strategic transactions, including strategic supply and service agreements and acquisitions of other assets and businesses. Any such transactions can be risky, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources and may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures, including: • difficulties in integrating acquired technologies and operations into our business while maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility; • increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; • increasing cost and complexity in the correct application of U.S. GAAP; • difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, and weak financial controls; and • inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology. The anticipated benefit of any of our strategic transactions may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Although we currently intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock, any decision to declare future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, investment opportunities, financial condition, contractual restrictions, the impact of the Business Separation and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We are a holding company that does not operate any business of our own. As a result, we are dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments or to make other distributions to our stockholders, including by means of a stock repurchase. Amounts that can be made available to us to pay cash dividends or repurchase stock are restricted by the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facility. 24 Table of Contents Our stock price has historically been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. Events and factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • conditions or trends in our industry or regulatory changes; • conditions, trends or changes in the securities marketplace, including trading volumes; • adverse changes in economic conditions; • changes in the market’s perception of our future prospects as a result of the Business Separation; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • our ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions and realize the anticipated benefits; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, significant contracts or divestitures; • announcements of investigations, regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economy, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • loss of one or more significant customers, including Sprint; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates. Quadrangle Capital Partners LLP and certain of its affiliates, collectively “Quadrangle,” continue to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may not be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of December 31, 2011, Quadrangle beneficially owned 5,653,050 shares of our common stock, or approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of the eight directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, including a representative of Quadrangle being Chairman of the Board of Directors, Quadrangle continues to have a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Quadrangle’s interests as a stockholder may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. Additionally, such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and, as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. We have granted the Quadrangle Entities the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing approximately 5.7 million shares of our common stock. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares and any other shares with tag-along registration rights may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent; and the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. In general, we do not manufacture any of the equipment or software used in our telecommunications businesses and we do not own any patents. Instead, we purchase the infrastructure equipment, handsets and software used in our business from third parties and we obtain licenses to use the associated intellectual property. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide variety of patents and other intellectual property rights. We and some of our suppliers and service providers may receive assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. The manufacturers and suppliers that provide us with the equipment and technology we use in our business may agree to indemnify us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not always have such indemnification protections in place and, even if we have such agreements in place, we may not be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. In addition, the manufacturers and suppliers also may require us to indemnify them against infringement claims asserted against them with respect to equipment they sell to us. Whether or not infringement claims are valid or successful, such claims could also adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to cease certain activities or to cease selling certain products and services to avoid claims of infringement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 