Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely impact our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial health. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2005, our total outstanding debt on a consolidated basis, including capital lease obligations, was approximately $759.4 million. On April 15, 2006, we will repay the Floating Rate Notes and unpaid accrued interest thereon with approximately $144.0 million from the proceeds of our initial public offering, resulting in a pro forma debt as of December 31, 2005 of $622.1 million following this repayment. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by making it more difficult for us to react quickly to changing conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our subsidiaries’ future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our subsidiaries operating activities are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities limit our subsidiaries’ ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of the securities offered hereby and our ability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. The NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on our subsidiaries. These restrictions generally: • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with affiliates; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; • impose financial covenants relating to the business of our subsidiaries, including leverage and interest coverage ratios; 19 Table of Contents • require our subsidiaries to use specified amounts of excess cash flow to repay indebtedness if our leverage ratio reaches specified levels; • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to grant dividends; and • restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that those covenants will not adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, finance our future operations or capital needs or pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities. If a default occurs, our indebtedness under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities could be declared immediately due and payable. As a result of general economic conditions, conditions in the lending markets, the results of our business or for any other reason, we may elect or be required to amend or refinance our indebtedness, at or prior to maturity, or enter into additional agreements for senior indebtedness. We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $89 million, and we are budgeting capital expenditures for 2006 of approximately $87 million. Based on our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005 of $759.4 million, which includes capital lease obligations, we expect payments on our outstanding indebtedness (not including the payment of approximately $144.0 million from the proceeds of the initial public offering, inclusive of unpaid accrued interest through the repayment date, to retire the Floating Rate Notes on April 15, 2006) to be approximately $4.5 million in 2006. Our ability to make payments on, or to refinance or repay, our debt, fund planned capital expenditures and expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow, or future borrowings may not be available to us under the NTELOS Inc. senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt requirements, we will be required to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt under such circumstances, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including, sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements, sales of equity and negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The agreements governing NTELOS Inc.’s senior secured credit facilities could restrict our ability to do some of these things. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options under distressed conditions, our business could be adversely affected. The telecommunications industry is generally characterized by rapid development, introduction of new technologies, substantial regulatory changes and intense competition, any of which could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services, such as voice-over-internet protocol, or VoIP, push-to-talk services, or “push-to-talk,” location based services such as GPS mapping technology and high speed data services, including streaming video, mobile gaming and other applications; • substantial regulatory change due to the continuing implementation of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which amended the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which included changes designed to stimulate competition for both local and long distance telecommunications services; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; 20 Table of Contents • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets; and • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local telephone, long distance, wireless, video, data and internet services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these risks may cause us to have to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to keep existing, and attract new, customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, wireless service providers, internet access providers and long distance carriers have brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins and/or loss of market share. As competition develops and technology evolves, and as a result of the FCC’s continuing implementation of the Telecommunications Act, the FCC, federal and state regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly. We anticipate that this state of regulatory flux will persist in the future, as the FCC and state regulators respond to competitive, technological, and legislative developments by modifying their existing regulations or adopting new ones. Taken together or individually, new or changed regulatory requirements affecting any or all of the wireless, local, and long distance industries may harm our business and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. The enactment of new adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, pending congressional legislative efforts to reform the Communications Act may cause major industry and regulatory changes that are difficult to predict. Wireless Telecommunications We face substantial competition in the wireless telecommunications industry generally from competitors with substantially greater resources than we have that may be able to offer new technologies, services covering a broader geographical area and lower prices, which could decrease our profitability and cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. We operate in an increasingly competitive environment. Our wireless business faces intense competition from other wireless providers, including Verizon Wireless, ALLTEL, Cellular One, T-Mobile, Cingular Wireless, U.S. Cellular and Sprint Nextel (including its affiliates and resellers, such as Virgin Mobile USA). Competition for customers is based principally upon services and features offered, system coverage, technical quality of the wireless system, price, customer service and network capacity. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. Many of our competitors are, or are affiliated with major communications companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. These competitors may have greater name recognition and more established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers and, accordingly, we may not be able to compete successfully. We expect that increased competition will result in more competitive pricing. Consolidation continues in the wireless industry with the recent combinations of Sprint and Nextel and AT&T Wireless and Cingular. Cingular Wireless, a national wireless company with significant resources, recently acquired the Virginia assets of Suncom, one of our main competitors in this market. Companies that have the resources to sustain losses for some time have an advantage over those companies without access to these resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain adequate market share or revenue or compete effectively in any of our markets. We believe we may have benefited and may continue to benefit by adding new subscribers following a consolidation of competitors in our market that has resulted in 21 Table of Contents post-consolidation service disruption to customers of the competitors involved. These benefits may be temporary, however, and we may not be able to sustain this additional growth or retain these new customers. Over the last three years, the per-minute rate for wireless services has declined. Competition may cause the prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline in the future. As per-minute rates continue to decline, our revenues and cash flows may be adversely impacted. In 2003-2004 capital spending on our network was primarily focused on meeting the growing capacity demands of our customers. As a result, during this period we spent very little capital expanding our service area with new cell sites or enhancing our existing service area to improve in-building coverage or to solve coverage concerns. In 2005 we completed 60 new cells sites which improved the quality of our network and expanded coverage. We expect in the future to spend more capital on our network in order to expand our service area and maintain our high level of customer service. We expect competition to intensify as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, including improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, such as the move to third generation, or 3G, wireless technologies. Several wireless carriers, including Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel, have announced plans to upgrade all or parts of their 3G networks to include “Evolution Data Optimized” 3G 1x-EVDO technology, or EVDO, which provides broadband wireless services at rates faster than the 3G one times radio transmission, or 1xRTT, technology we use in our western Virginia and West Virginia markets and faster than the second generation, or 2G, technology we currently use in our eastern Virginia market. Many wireless carriers have also added “push-to-talk” which allows subscribers to talk to each other quickly with a single push of a button, and some are developing technology to permit wireless handset video transmission. Such technological advances and industry changes could cause the technology used on our network to become dated. We may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. To the extent that we do not keep pace with technological advances, fail to offer technologies comparable to those of our competitors or fail to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose existing customers and experience a decline in revenues and net income. Each of these factors and sources of competition discussed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase. Many wireless providers in the U.S. have experienced and have sought to prevent a high rate of customer turnover. The rate of customer turnover may be the result of several factors, including limited network coverage, reliability issues such as blocked or dropped calls, handset problems, inability to roam onto third-party networks at competitive rates, or at all, price competition and affordability, customer care concerns, wireless number portability requirements that allow customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers and other competitive factors. In addition, customers could elect to switch to another carrier that has service offerings dependent on newer network technology. We cannot assure you that our strategies to address customer turnover will be successful. If we experience a high rate of wireless customer turnover or seek to prevent significant customer turnover or fail to replace lost customers, our revenues could decline and our costs could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of our largest customer, Sprint Nextel, a decrease in its usage or a demand by Sprint Nextel that we provide new products or services may result in lower revenues or higher expenses. Sprint Nextel (and its predecessor in our area, Horizon PCS) accounted for approximately 18% of our operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. If we were to lose Sprint Nextel as a customer, or if Sprint Nextel reduced its usage or became financially unable to pay our charges, our revenues could decline, which could cause our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. The impact on us of the recent merger of Sprint and Nextel cannot be predicted at this time but could be substantial. One effect could be a request that we offer new products and services to Sprint Nextel customers. Also, Sprint Nextel is expected to acquire a controlling ownership interest in Nextel Partners Inc., a wireless affiliate of Sprint Nextel, by the end of the second quarter of 2006. Such a sale could result in the ownership of Nextel Partners by Sprint Nextel. Unlike Sprint Nextel, Nextel Partners owns a wireless network in all of the territory covered by our Strategic Network Alliance. Any future migration by Sprint Nextel of CDMA customers to their integrated digital enhanced network, or iDEN, technology 22 Table of Contents could result in a decline in the usage of our network by Sprint Nextel and could cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The pricing arrangement under our Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint Nextel may fluctuate which could result in lower revenues. Under the Strategic Network Alliance with Sprint Nextel, after an initial pricing term in which the price Sprint Nextel is required to pay us is set by the agreement, our price structure with Sprint Nextel will fluctuate under a formula tied to a national wireless retail customer revenue yield. In addition, Sprint Nextel prices its national calling plans based on its business objectives and it could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business or may result in reduction of usage from Sprint Nextel customers. If Sprint Nextel does not succeed, our business may not succeed. If Sprint Nextel has a significant service disruption, fails to operate its business in an efficient manner or suffers a weakening of its brand name, our operating results would likely be negatively impacted. If Sprint Nextel should have significant financial problems, our business would suffer material adverse consequences, which could include termination or revision of our Strategic Network Alliance. If the roaming rates we pay for our customers’ usage of third-party networks increase, our operating results may decline. Many of our competitors have national networks which enable them to offer roaming and long-distance telephone services to their subscribers at a lower cost. We do not have a national network, and we must pay other carriers a per-minute charge for carrying roaming and long-distance calls made by our subscribers. To remain competitive, we absorb a substantial portion of the roaming and long-distance charges without increasing the prices we charge to our subscribers. We have entered into roaming agreements with other communications providers that govern the roaming rates that we are required to pay. In addition, under the terms of our Strategic Network Alliance, we have favorable roaming rates with Sprint Nextel. If these roaming agreements are terminated, the roaming rates that we are charged may increase and, accordingly, our cash flow and operating results may decline. We may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate to upgrade existing subscribers. As our subscriber base grows, and technological innovations occur, more existing subscribers will begin to upgrade to new wireless handsets. We subsidize a portion of the price of wireless handsets and incur sales commissions on the sale or upgrade of handsets. The cost of handsets increases as they are able to offer more applications. Furthermore, we generally pay more to purchase handsets than many of our national competitors who buy from manufacturers in large volumes. If more subscribers purchase or upgrade to new wireless handsets than we project, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our largest competitors and Sprint Nextel may build networks in our markets or use alternative suppliers, which may result in decreased revenues and severe price-based competition. Our current roaming partners, larger wireless providers and Sprint Nextel ultimately may build their own digital wireless networks in our service areas or obtain roaming services from alternative sources. Sprint Nextel controls 10 MHz of spectrum within our service territory in the 1900 MHz PCS band. While the terms of the Strategic Network Alliance generally prohibit Sprint Nextel from directly or indirectly commencing construction of, contracting for or launching its own PCS or wireless communications network in the Strategic Network Alliance service area until 180 days prior to termination of the Strategic Network Alliance, the initial term of which ends on July 31, 2011, it would adversely affect our revenues and operating results if Sprint Nextel or another wireless provider were to do so. Should this occur, use of our networks would decrease and our roaming and/or wholesale revenues would be adversely affected. Once a digital wireless system is built, there are only marginal costs to carrying an additional call, so a larger number of facility-based competitors in our service areas could stimulate significant price competition, as has occurred in many areas in the U.S., with a resulting reduction in our revenues and operating results. 23 Table of Contents The loss of our licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. Our wireless licenses are generally valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and potentially public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. We applied for and were granted renewal of seven of these licenses in 2005. If we fail to file for renewal of other of our licenses at the appropriate time or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, we could be denied a license renewal and, accordingly, our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. In addition, many of our licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements. While the licensees have generally met “safe harbor” standards for ensuring such benchmarks are met, we have relied on, and will in the future rely on, “substantial service” thresholds for meeting build-out requirements. In such cases, there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction sufficient to meet the applicable construction requirement, in which case the FCC could terminate our license and our ability to continue to provide service in that license area would be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with regulatory mandates could adversely affect our ability to provide wireless services. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. Our compliance with existing regulatory requirements, such as Enhanced 911, or E911, and Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or CALEA, depends on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Many carriers in the CMRS industry, including us, had requested waivers of the FCC’s December 31, 2005 deadline for requiring that 95% of all subscriber handsets in service nationwide on our system can deliver subscriber location information. By order adopted January 26, 2006, the FCC granted us a limited extension of the December 31, 2005 requirement by extending the date that we must achieve 95% penetration until November 1, 2006. Failure to comply with this or other regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. The licensing of additional spectrum by the FCC may adversely affect our ability to compete in providing wireless services. The FCC, from time to time, auctions additional radio spectrum that may be suitable for services that compete, directly or indirectly, with our wireless offerings. For example, in the summer of 2006, the FCC intends to auction an additional 90 MHz of radio spectrum for “Advanced Wireless Services” that can be used for services like our wireless offerings. We may also participate in such auctions in order to obtain spectrum necessary to increase the capacity of our systems or to allow us to offer new services. Thus, the auction of new spectrum may adversely impact our business by creating new competitors, enhancing the ability of our existing competitors to offer services we cannot offer, requiring the company to expend additional funds to acquire spectrum necessary for continued growth, or restricting our growth because we cannot acquire additional necessary spectrum. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless cell sites or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless cell sites on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2005, 806 of our base stations were installed on leased cell site facilities, with 392 installed on facilities owned by American Tower and Crown Communications. A large portion of these cell sites are leased from a small number of large cell site companies pursuant to master agreements that govern the general terms of our use of that company’s cell sites. If a master agreement with one of these cell site companies were to terminate, or if one of these cell site companies were unable to support our use of its cell sites, we would have to find new sites or rebuild the affected portion of our network. In addition, the concentration of our cell site leases with a limited number of cell site companies could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these cell site companies either on terms comparable to those we have today or at all. If any of the cell site leasing companies with which we do business were to experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use cell sites leased from that company could be adversely affected. If a material number of cell sites were no longer available for our use, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. We believe our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. We cannot assure you that we will obtain access to new technology on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For us to keep pace with these technological changes and remain competitive, we must continue to make significant capital expenditures to our integrated communications system. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. Currently we do not offer many high speed data applications offered by our competitors who have upgraded to EVDO technology. In addition, “push-to-talk” is becoming increasingly popular as it allows subscribers to save time on dialing or connecting to a network. Many of the companies that compete with us in our wireless markets offer “push-to-talk.” We do not offer our customers a “push-to-talk” service. As demand for this service continues to grow, and if we do not offer the technology, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining subscribers, which will have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, other service providers have announced plans to develop a Wi-Fi or Wi-Max enabled handset. Such a handset would permit subscribers to communicate using voice and data services with their handset using VoIP technology in any area equipped with a wireless internet connection, or hot spot, potentially bypassing our network. The number of hot spots in the U.S. is growing rapidly, with some major cities and urban areas being covered entirely. The availability of VoIP or another alternative technology to our subscribers could greatly reduce the usage of our network, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. To accommodate next generation advanced wireless products such as “push-to-talk,” high-speed data and high-bandwidth streaming video, we would be required to make significant technological changes to our network. We also may be required to purchase additional spectrum. We cannot assure you that we could make these technological changes or gain access to this spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with wireless carriers offering these new technologies. Wireline Telecommunications Our rural local telephone company subsidiaries face substantial competition from competitors that are less heavily regulated than we are, which could increase our expenses or force us to lower prices, causing our revenues and operating results to decline. As the rural local telephone companies for the western Virginia communities of Waynesboro, Clifton Forge, Covington and portions of Botetourt and Augusta Counties, Virginia, we currently compete with a number of different providers, many of whom are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries qualify as rural local telephone companies under the Communications Act and are, therefore, exempt from many of the most burdensome obligations to facilitate the development of competition, such as the obligation to sell unbundled elements of our network to our competitors at “forward-looking” prices that the Communications Act places on larger carriers. Nevertheless, our rural telephone company subsidiaries face significant competition, particularly from competitors that do not need to rely on access to our network to reach their customers. For example, wireless providers continue to increase their market share and pose a significant competitive risk to our business. Further, cable providers that serve our markets, such as Comcast (as the apparent purchaser of assets of Adelphia Communications Corporation), are likely to offer wireline voice services to their cable customers. Cable providers have had significant success in other markets offering wireline voice services and any new offering of services in our rural telephone company subsidiaries markets by such a cable company or other VoIP providers could significantly harm our business. Furthermore, if our rural exemption were removed, competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Consistent with the experience of other rural telephone companies, our rural telephone company subsidiaries have experienced a reduction in access lines caused by, among other things, customer migration to 25 Table of Contents broadband internet service from dial-up internet service (resulting in a disconnection of “second lines”), wireless competition and business customer migration from Centrex services to IP-based and other PBX services using fewer lines. As penetration rates of these technologies increase in our markets, our revenues could decline. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries experienced a net loss of 1,486 access lines in the year ended December 31, 2005, or 3.1% of our access lines served in 2004. A continued net loss of access lines could impact our revenues and operating results. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries are subject to several regulatory regimes and consequently faces substantial regulatory burdens and uncertainties. Many of our competitors are unregulated or less heavily regulated than we are. For example, VoIP technology is used to carry voice communications services over a broadband internet connection. The FCC has ruled that VoIP services are jurisdictionally interstate and that some VoIP arrangements (those not using the Public Switched Telephone Network) are not subject to regulation as telephone services. The United States Supreme Court in the Brand X case recently upheld the FCC’s ruling that cable broadband internet services are not subject to common carrier telecommunications regulation. In addition, the SCC imposes service quality obligations on our rural telephone company subsidiaries and requires us to adhere to prescribed service quality standards, but many of our competitors are not subject to these standards. These standards measure the performance of various aspects of our business. If we fail to meet these standards, the SCC may impose fines or penalties or take other actions that may impact our revenues or increase our costs. Our rural telephone company subsidiaries have met or exceeded these service quality standards in recent years, including 2004 and 2005. Cable companies and other VoIP providers are able to compete with our rural telephone company subsidiaries even though the “rural exemption” under the Telecommunications Act is in place. If this exemption were removed CLECs could more easily enter our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ markets. Moreover, the regulatory environment governing wireline local operations has been, and we believe will likely continue to be, very liberal in its approach to promoting competition and network access. Regulatory developments at the FCC could reduce revenues that our rural telephone company subsidiaries receive from network access charges and the federal Universal Service Fund. Intercarrier Compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $31 million of our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ revenues came from network access charges, which are paid to us by long distance carriers for originating and terminating calls in the areas we serve. These revenues are highly profitable for us. The amount of access charge revenues that we receive is based on rates set by the FCC for interstate long distance calls and the SCC for intrastate long distance calls. Such access rates are subject to change. Our federal access charges are periodically reset by the FCC. The SCC could conduct rate cases and/or “earnings” reviews, which could result in rate changes. The FCC has reformed and continues to reform the structure of the federal access charge system. The FCC has an active proceeding addressing access and other intercarrier payments. Interested parties filed comments in this proceeding in the spring and summer of 2005 and various members of the FCC have indicated an intention to further reform the intercarrier compensation system. Currently, VoIP providers generally do not pay us access charges for calls that originate or terminate on our network. Therefore, expanded use of VoIP technology could reduce the access or intercarrier revenues received by rural telephone companies like ours. The FCC is currently considering the extent to which VoIP providers should be obligated to pay, or entitled to receive, access charges, but we cannot predict the timing or ultimate result of this proceeding. If VoIP providers continue not to pay access charges to us, our revenues and operating results could be adversely affected to the extent that users substitute VoIP calls for traditional wireline communications. Additionally, the intrastate access charges we receive may be reduced as a result of SCC regulatory action. The SCC in early 2005 ordered Verizon in Virginia to eliminate the carrier common line component of its intrastate access charges by February 1, 2006. The SCC did not extend that holding to rural telephone companies like ours. Nevertheless, reduced access revenues (caused by regulatory or market forces or both) could adversely affect our business, revenues or profitability. 26 Table of Contents Universal Service Fund. The FCC is currently examining the way in which it collects carrier contributions to the federal Universal Service Fund. Today, as a telecommunications carrier, we contribute a percentage of our revenues, including DSL revenues, to the Universal Service Fund, which supports the delivery of services to high-cost areas and low-income consumers, as well as to schools, libraries, and rural health care providers. Many of our competitors, such as VoIP and cable broadband internet service providers, are not subject to this obligation. Any FCC reform of this system could cause these competitors to become subject to contribution obligations, but also could increase our own obligations. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we received approximately $5.2 million in payments from the federal Universal Service Fund in connection with our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ operations. The FCC is examining its Universal Service Fund rules and may change the amount of Universal Service Fund support available to carriers. The FCC may change its rules and reduce the amount of funding ultimately available to our rural telephone company subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive the current level of Universal Service Fund revenues in the future. Loss of Universal Service Fund revenues could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, under the Telecommunications Act, our competitors can obtain the same per-line level of federal Universal Service Fund subsidies as we do, without regard for whether their costs of providing service are similar to ours, if either the FCC or the SCC determines that granting these subsidies to competitors would be in the public interest and the competitors offer and advertise certain telephone services as required by the Telecommunications Act. The FCC has allowed such designation as an “Eligible Telecommunications Carrier” to several wireless carriers in Virginia, including us, in all or part of our rural telephone company subsidiaries’ service territory. Under current rules, any Universal Service Fund payments to our competitors would not affect the level of support received by our rural telephone company subsidiaries, but this could change as a result of future FCC reform of the Universal Service Fund. In December 2004, Congress suspended the application of a law called the Antideficiency Act to the Universal Service Fund until December 31, 2005 and, in November 2005, suspended the application for an additional year until December 31, 2006. The Antideficiency Act prohibits government agencies from making financial commitments in excess of their funds on hand. Currently, the Universal Service Fund administrator makes commitments to fund recipients in advance of collecting the contributions from carriers that will pay for these commitments. The FCC has not determined whether the Antideficiency Act would apply to payments to our rural telephone company subsidiaries. Congress is now considering whether to extend the current temporary legislation that exempts the Universal Service Fund from the Antideficiency Act. If it does not grant this extension, however, the Universal Service Fund support payments to our rural telephone company subsidiaries may be delayed or reduced in the future, or contributors to the fund, including us, could see their contribution obligations rise significantly. Our CLEC operations face substantial competition and uncertainty relating to its interconnection agreements with the incumbent local exchange carrier, or ILEC, networks covering the CLEC markets we serve. Our CLEC operations compete primarily with ILECs, including Verizon (including Verizon Business) and Sprint Nextel, and, to a lesser extent, other CLECs, including TelCove (formerly Adelphia Business Solutions and KMC Telecom), Fibernet, USLEC and Cox. We will continue to face competition from other current and future market entrants. We have interconnection agreements with the ILEC networks covering each market in which our CLEC serves. We are required to negotiate amendments to, extensions of, or replacements for these agreements as they expire. Additionally, we may be required to negotiate new interconnection agreements in order to enter new markets in the future. We may not be able to successfully negotiate amendments to existing agreements, negotiate new interconnection agreements, renew our existing interconnection agreements, opt in to new agreements or successfully arbitrate replacement agreements for interconnection on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Our inability to do so would adversely affect our existing operations and opportunities to expand our CLEC business in existing and new markets. As the FCC modifies, changes and implements rules related to unbundling of ILEC network elements and collocation of competitive facilities at ILEC central offices, we generally have to renegotiate our interconnection agreements to implement those new or modified rules. The FCC on December 15, 2004 revised 27 Table of Contents its rules concerning ILECs’ obligations to unbundle and make network elements available to other carriers for use in providing local telecommunications services. The FCC, among other things, modified the availability of certain high-capacity loops (i.e. DS-1 and DS-3) and dedicated transport in markets meeting particular density criteria. Because our CLECs serve in more rural markets, our operations were unaffected by the FCC’s December 15, 2004 ruling. Our CLECs, however, may be unfavorably affected by future FCC rule changes and may be unable to negotiate successfully modifications to its interconnection agreements without arbitration or litigation. Our competitors have substantial business advantages over our CLEC operations, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The regional Bell operating companies and other large ILECs such as Sprint Nextel (which has been renamed Embarq and is expected to be separated from Sprint Nextel in the second quarter 2006) dominate the current market for business and consumer telecommunications services and have a virtual monopoly on telephone lines. These companies represent the dominant competition in much of our target service areas, and we expect this competition to intensify. The large ILECs have established brand names and reputations for high quality service in their service areas, possess sufficient capital to rapidly improve and deploy new equipment, own their telephone lines and can bundle digital data services with their existing analog voice services and other services, such as long-distance, wireless and video services, to achieve economies of scale in serving customers. Moreover, the large ILECs are aggressively implementing “win-back” programs to regain access line customers lost to competitors and use bundled services to assist in those programs. We pose a competitive risk to the large ILECs that serve our CLEC markets and, as both our competitors and our suppliers, they have no motivation to respond in a timely manner to our requests or to assist in the enhancement of the services we provide to our CLEC customers. We face substantial competition in our internet and data services business from market participants that offer high speed data services and face regulatory uncertainty, each of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently offer our internet and data services in rural markets and face competition from other internet and data service providers, including cable companies. The internet industry is characterized by the absence of significant barriers to entry and rapid growth in internet usage among customers. As a result, we expect that our competition will increase from market entrants offering high-speed data services, including DSL, cable and wireless access. Our competition includes: • cable modem services offered by cable providers; • ILECs, such as Verizon and the ILEC affiliates of Sprint Nextel (particularly for DSL services), in our CLEC territories; and • local, regional and national internet service providers, or ISPs, both wireline and wireless. Many of our competitors have financial resources, corporate backing, customer bases, marketing programs and brand names that are greater than ours. Additionally, competitors may charge less than we do for internet services, causing us to reduce, or preventing us from raising, our fees. A significant portion of our dial-up internet customer base has transitioned to broadband services. We expect this trend to continue. Where we offer incumbent local exchange service or, to some extent, CLEC services, we have been able to maintain service to some of these customers through DSL services or service bundles. In those areas of our internet coverage area where we provide neither incumbent local exchange service nor CLEC service, we have been unable to retain dial-up internet customers who migrate to broadband services. In 2005 we experienced a 18.7% loss in the number of dial-up internet customers from 2004. Our internet service revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased to approximately $15.4 million from approximately $17.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. In connection with our internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the internet. To date, the FCC has treated ISPs as enhanced or information service providers, rather than common carriers. Therefore ISPs are exempt from most federal and state regulation, including the requirement to pay access charges or contribute to the federal Universal Service Fund. As internet services 28 Table of Contents expand, federal, state and local governments may adopt rules and regulations, or apply existing laws and regulations to the internet. The FCC recently issued a decision that harmonizes the regulatory frameworks that apply to broadband access to the internet through telephone and cable providers’ communications networks. General Matters We require additional capital to respond to customer demand and to competition, and if we fail to raise the capital or fail to have continued access to the capital required to build out and operate our planned networks, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business. We require additional capital to build out and operate wireless and wireline networks and for general working capital needs. Our aggregate capital expenditures for 2005 were $89 million. Of this amount, $56 million was associated with our wireless business of which approximately $15 million was for discretionary expansion projects for wireless network coverage expansion, expansion of our 3G 1xRTT capabilities and enhancements within the coverage area for improved in-building penetration. Capital expenditures related to our wireline business were approximately $25 million in 2005, of which approximately $5 million was for fiber network expansion and enhancements utilized by our RLEC and competitive wireline operations. The remaining $20 million was used to provide regular maintenance and support for our regulated RLEC operations and to support the increased minutes of usage, maintenance and growth we project for our competitive wireline voice and data offerings. In addition, the remaining approximately $8 million was invested to enhance and maintain our back office support systems to support the continued growth and introduction of new service offerings and applications across our wireless and wireline businesses. We expect our aggregate capital expenditures for 2006 to be approximately $87 million. Because of our intensely competitive market, we may be required, including under the terms of the Strategic Network Alliance, to expand the technical requirements of our wireless or wireline network or to build out additional areas within our territories that could result in increased capital expenditures. Any such unexpected capital expenditures may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and amount of these fees is subject to great uncertainty. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services. Interstate surcharges include federal Universal Service Fund fees and common carrier regulatory fees. In addition, state regulators and local governments impose surcharges, taxes and fees on our services and the applicability of these surcharges and fees to our services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may argue as to whether we have correctly assessed and remitted those monies. The division of our services between interstate services and intrastate services is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. In addition, periodic revisions by state and federal regulators may increase the surcharges and fees we currently pay. In 2004, the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation that required us to pay state sales taxes on purchases that were previously exempt from those taxes. As a result, we have added a surcharge to our customer bills to recover this increase in our taxes. It also is unknown if our tax burden will be similar to competitors using different technologies to provide similar services. On March 7, 2006, the Virginia General Assembly passed legislation that significantly revises the taxation of communications services in Virginia. The Governor is expected to sign the legislation, which would take effect on January 1, 2007. The new law would apply a uniform, statewide, sales and use tax to retail communications and video services on a competitively neutral basis. The communications sales and use tax rate will be 5%. The sales and use tax will be remitted by communications providers to the Virginia Department of Taxation, which will administer the distribution of the Communications Sales and Use Tax Trust Fund. The redistribution of taxes and fees from the trust fund to the localities is intended to be revenue neutral and replaces franchise fees and utility taxes set by localities. The Federal government and many states apply transaction-based taxes to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. It is possible that our transaction-based tax liabilities could change in the future. We may or may not be able to recover some or all of those taxes from our customers. 29 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us effectively to be locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Motorola Inc., Lucent Technologies, Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc. If alternative suppliers and vendors become necessary, we may not be able to obtain satisfactory and timely replacement supplies on economically attractive terms, or at all. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. To be successful, we must provide our customers reliable network service. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to outside plant facilities; • power surges or outages; • software defects; • human error; • disruptions beyond our control, including disruptions caused by terrorist activities or severe weather; and • failures in operational support systems. Network disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses. We are dependent on third-party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our cost and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third-party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed by third parties and may not perform as anticipated. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely to some extent on the delivery of products and services by third-party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third-party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process customer information and/or bill our customers. Since we rely on third-party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of, or interference with, our network could disrupt service and increase our costs. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized use of our network including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraudulent use of our network may impact interconnection costs, capacity costs, administrative costs, fraud prevention costs and payments to other carriers for fraudulent roaming. Security breaches related to our physical facilities, computer networks, and informational databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our physical facilities and information systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, theft, attacks by hackers, or similar disruptive problems. If hackers gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential personal information concerning our subscribers. In addition, misuse of our customer information could result in more substantial harms perpetrated by third parties. This could damage our business and reputation, and result in a loss of customers. There was no existing market for our common stock prior to our recent initial public offering, and we do not know if one will develop, which could depress our stock price. In addition, market and industry factors may cause fluctuations in our stock price. There was no public market for our common stock prior to the recent initial public offering. We cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop or how liquid that market might become. Factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • conditions or trends in our industry or regulatory changes • conditions, trends or changes in the securities marketplace, including trading volumes; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, significant contracts or divestitures; • announcements of investigations, regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • changes in general conditions in the United States and global economy, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events; • loss of one or more significant customers, including Sprint Nextel; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors, executive officers or affiliates. 31 Table of Contents The CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities continue to have significant influence over our business and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control, change in management or business combination that may be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. As of March 21, 2006, the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities beneficially owned 24,525,752 shares of our Class B common stock, or 58.6% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. In addition, six of the seven directors that serve on our board of directors are representatives or designees of CVC and Quadrangle. By virtue of such stock ownership and representation on the board of directors, the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities continue to have a significant influence over day-to-day corporate and management policies and all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of the directors, and to exercise significant control over our business, policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, change in management or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and as a result, may depress the market price of our stock. The interests of the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities may not coincide with the interests of a holder of our common stock and because such entities continue to have significant influence over our business, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. The interests of the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. Accordingly, because the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities continue to have significant influence over our business, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. On October 17, 2005, we paid approximately $125 million of the net proceeds from the Floating Rate Notes as a dividend to the holders of our Class L common stock, which consisted of the CVC Entities, the Quadrangle Entities and certain members of management. Moreover, subject to the availability of funds legally available therefore and declaration by our board of directors, we expect to pay a dividend of $30.0 million on our Class B common stock during the first six months of fiscal 2006. The holders of our Class B common stock consist of the CVC Entities, the Quadrangle Entities and certain members of management. In addition, the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Each of the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities may also pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Additionally, we have specifically renounced in our shareholders agreement any interest or expectancy that the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities will offer to us any investment or business opportunity of which they are aware. Our stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. As of March 21, 2006, there were 15,375,000 shares of our common stock and 26,492,897 shares of our Class B common stock outstanding. All of the shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any such shares which are held or which have been acquired by an “affiliate” of ours, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which shares are subject to the volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144. All of the shares of Class B common stock are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144. Of these restricted securities, none of the shares of Class B common stock are freely transferable under Rule 144(k) and the remainder are eligible for resale subject to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations of Rule 144, in each case immediately upon expiration of the 180-day lock-up period described below. The CVC Entities, the Quadrangle Entities and certain members of our management have the right to require us to register their shares of our common stock, representing 26,492,897 shares of our common stock on an as-converted basis. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 32 Table of Contents All shares of Class B common stock held by our current stockholders are subject to lock-up agreements and may not be sold to the public during the 180-day period following the date of completion of our initial public offering without the prior written consent of Lehman Brothers Inc. and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. Provisions in our charter documents and the General Corporation Law of Delaware could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit a change of control not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • the inability of the stockholders to act by written consent (subject to certain exceptions) if at any time the CVC Entities and the Quadrangle Entities and their permitted transferees no longer collectively beneficially own at least 50.1% of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. Requirements associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. Upon the completion of our initial public offering, we became subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We are also subject to various other regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we are subject to the rules of The Nasdaq National Market. Compliance with reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies create additional costs for us and require the time and attention of management. We currently expect to incur an estimated $1.8 million of incremental operating expenses in our first year of being a public company and an estimated $1.4 million per year thereafter. The incremental costs are estimates, and actual incremental expenses could be materially different from these estimates. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. We have availed ourselves of the “controlled company” exception under the rules of The Nasdaq National Market which eliminates the requirements that we have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and that we have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors. In addition, we have taken advantage of certain “grace periods” for newly public companies under certain of the new SEC and Nasdaq rules and regulations. These grace periods provide us a short period of time after we became a public company before we are required to be in full compliance with the SEC and Nasdaq rules and regulations. Our ability to satisfy these various requirements before the expiration of the applicable grace periods will depend largely on our ability to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, which may be more difficult in light of these new rules and regulations. If we fail to satisfy the various requirements before the expiration of the applicable grace periods, our common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq, which would cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock and impair the ability of the holders of our common stock to sell and buy our common stock in a public market. 33 Table of Contents In addition, our status as a public company could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. The perception of these matters could cause our share price to fall. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We are performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by the December 31, 2007 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or Nasdaq. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company, and could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, the controls and procedures that we implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and Nasdaq. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. The perception of these matters could cause our share price to fall. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 