Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Industry The cyclical nature of the demand for LPG transportation, which has recently declined, may lead to significant changes in our chartering and vessel utilization, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial position. Historically, the international LPG carrier market has been cyclical with attendant volatility in profitability, charter rates and vessel values. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of gas carriers has varied widely. Because many factors influencing the supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity are unpredictable, the timing, direction and degree of changes in the international gas carrier market are also not predictable. After increasing throughout 2007 and into 2008, charter rates for Handy size LPG carriers declined in the second half of 2008 and in 2009 as a result of slowdown in the world economy. During early 2010 charter rates have remained at similar levels to those seen in the latter part of 2008 and during 2009. If charter rates remain depressed or decline further, our earnings may decrease, particularly with respect to our vessels deployed in the spot market or those vessels whose charters will be subject to renewal during 2010. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, liquidity, cash flow and financial position. To the extent we have vessels in the spot market, we are exposed to changes in spot rates for gas carriers and such changes can affect our earnings and the value of our gas carriers at any given time. We are also exposed to fluctuations in bunker (fuel) costs for which we are responsible in respect of vessels on spot charters. As of June 18, 2010, eight of our 37 vessels were deployed in the spot market while eight and 21 were under bareboat and time period charters, respectively. As our period charters expire they may not be extended or renewed on favorable terms when compared to the terms of the expiring charters. Future growth in the demand for LPG carriers and charter rates will depend on economic growth in the world economy and demand for LPG product transportation that exceeds the capacity of the growing worldwide LPG carrier fleet’s ability to match it. We believe that the future growth in demand for LPG carriers and the charter rate levels for LPG carriers will depend primarily upon the supply and demand for LPG particularly in the economies of China, India and Southeast Asia, and upon seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world shipping fleet appears likely to increase in the near term, although growth in our core sector of 3,000 to 8,000 cbm Handy size LPG Carriers is expected to be limited in 2010. Economic growth may be limited in the near term, and possibly for an extended period, as a result of the current worldwide financial crisis, which could adversely affect demand for LPG transportation. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments, including the continued turmoil in the global financial system and economic crisis, could have a material adverse effect on world economic growth and thus on our business and results of operations. The factors affecting the supply and demand for LPG carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for our vessels include: • supply and demand for LPG products; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance LPG products are to be moved by sea; • availability of alternative transportation means; and - 6 - Table of Contents • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • LPG carrier prices; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. A significant decline in demand for the seaborne transport of LPG or a significant increase in the supply of LPG carrier capacity without a corresponding growth in LPG carrier demand could cause a significant decline in prevailing charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and cash flow. Various economic factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. The global economy and the volume of world trade sharply declined in the latter part of 2008 and in 2009. Although the global economy has begun to show signs of the beginning of a recovery, both slow and not consistent on a worldwide basis. More specifically, some LPG products we carry are used in cyclical businesses, such as the manufacturing of plastics and in the chemical industry, that have been adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and, accordingly, a further slackening of demand in those industries could further adversely affect the LPG carrier industry. In particular, an adverse change in economic conditions affecting China, Japan, India or Southeast Asia generally could have a negative effect on the demand for LPG products, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years China and India have been among the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. In 2008 growth in China slowed significantly from recent years, and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, any further deterioration in the economy of the United States or the European Union, including due to the European sovereign debt crisis, may further adversely affect economic growth in Asia. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, could likely be materially and adversely affected by adverse economic conditions in any of these countries or regions. If the demand for LPG products and LPG shipping does not grow, or decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our growth, which depends on growth in the supply and demand for LPG products and LPG shipping, was adversely affected by the sharp decrease in world trade and the global economy experienced in the latter part of 2008 and in 2009. Although the global economy has begun to show signs of the beginning of a recovery, world and regional demand for LPG products and LPG shipping can be adversely affected by a number of factors, such as: • adverse global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LPG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption; • a reduction in global or general industrial activity specifically in the plastics and chemical industry; • increases in the cost of petroleum and natural gas from which LPG is derived; - 7 - Table of Contents • decreases in the consumption of LPG or natural gas due to availability of new, alternative energy sources or increases in the price of LPG or natural gas relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of LPG or natural gas less attractive; and • increases in pipelines for LPG, which are currently few in number, linking production areas and industrial and residential areas consuming LPG, or the conversion of existing non-petroleum gas pipelines to petroleum gas pipelines in those markets. Reduced demand for LPG products and LPG shipping would have an adverse effect on our future growth and would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our LPG carriers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter-to-quarter. The LPG carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of propane and butane for heating during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31, and conversely, our revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. Our revenues, operations and future growth could be adversely affected by a decrease in supply of liquefied natural gas, or natural gas. In recent years, there has been a strong supply of natural gas and an increase in the construction of plants and projects involving natural gas, of which LPG is a byproduct. Several of these projects, however, have experienced delays in their completion for various reasons and thus the expected increase in the supply of LPG from these projects may be delayed significantly. If the supply of natural gas decreases, we may see a concurrent reduction in the production of LPG and resulting lesser demand and lower charter rates for our vessels, which could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our revenues, operations and future growth. The product carrier shipping and crude oil tanker sectors are cyclical, which may lead to lower charter rates and lower vessel values. The medium range type product carrier and crude oil tanker shipping sectors are also cyclical with attendant volatility in charter rates and vessel values. Although the charter arrangements for our three product carriers are not scheduled to expire until 2015 in the case of the first two and 2012 in regard to our third product carrier, and 2015 in the case of the crude oil tanker we have agreed to acquire, if prevailing market conditions, which have recently deteriorated along with the global economy, are depressed at such times as these charters expire or otherwise are terminated, we may not be able to renew or replace existing charters for our product carriers at the same or similar rates. If we were required to enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The market values of our vessels, which have recently declined, may remain at current low, or lower, levels for a prolonged period and, over time, may fluctuate significantly. If the market values of our vessels are low, we may incur a loss on sale of a vessel or record an impairment charge, which may adversely affect our earnings and possibly lead to defaults under our loan agreements. Due to the sharp decline in the world economy and related decreases in charter rates, the market value of our vessels declined from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. The market values of our vessels may remain at current low, or be depressed to even lower, values for a prolonged period of time and, as was the case with the - 8 - Table of Contents recent decreases in value, are subject to the potential significant fluctuations depending on a number of factors including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • age, sophistication and condition of our vessels; • types and sizes of vessels; • availability of other modes of transportation; • cost and delivery of schedules for newbuildings; • governmental and other regulations; • supply and demand for LPG products and, with respect to our product carriers, refined petroleum products; • prevailing level of LPG charter rates and, with respect to our product carriers, the prevailing level of product carrier charter rates; and • technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be for less than the vessel’s carrying value on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values experience significant further declines, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. For instance, in 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.9 million in respect of four of our vessels. If the market value of our fleet further declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and pay dividends. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not run our business. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because those laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or the impact they may have on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional rules and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which could materially adversely affect our operations. We are also required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. These permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances may be issued or renewed with terms that could materially and adversely affect our operations. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA 90 applies to any discharges of oil from a vessel, including discharges of fuel oil (bunkers) and lubricants. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the discharge of pollutants results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels. In addition, our vessels are subject to OPA financial responsibility requirements for “tank vessels”. See “