D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information in this Annual Report and, in particular, the risks outlined below. 3 Our customers are Chinese companies engaged in retail, distribution and logistics industries, and, consequently, our financial performance is dependent upon the economic conditions of these industries. We have derived most of our revenues to date from the license of software products and related services to the Chinese retail, distribution and logistics industries, and our future growth is critically dependent on increased sales to these particular industries. The success of our customers is intrinsically linked to economic conditions in these industries, which in turn are subject to intense competitive pressures and are affected by overall economic conditions. We believe the license of our software solutions and the purchase of our related services is discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital. As a result, although we believe our products can assist China’s retailers, distributors, wholesalers, and logistics companies in a competitive environment, demand for our products and services could be disproportionately affected by instability or downturns in the retailing, distribution, wholesaling and logistics industries, which may cause customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for information management systems and software products. We have previously experienced this effect in connection with the impact that severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, placed upon China’s retailing industry in recent years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our historical revenue growth or sustain our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis or that our results of operations will not be adversely affected by continuing or future downturns in these industries. Any adverse change in the Chinese retail, distribution and logistics industries could adversely affect the level of software expenditure by the participants in these industries, which, in turn, could result in a material reduction in our sales. Although we achieved profitability for the first time in 2004, since our formation we have generated a significant shareholders’ deficit, and we cannot provide any assurance that our recent profitability will continue. Though we achieved profitability from 2004 to 2006, we had an accumulative deficit of RMB44,898,716 as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our shareholders’ equity was RMB125,674,968. While we have achieved profitability in previous years, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue our growth or profitability. Indeed, we had a net loss of RMB27,480,747 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Our recent service fee revenue growth will require our officers to manage our business efficiently while recruiting a significant number of new employees to assist in further development and implementation of our software. In 2007, our service fee income increased by 301% in comparison to 2006, which was mainly due to our efforts of focusing on services and expanding our direct sales force in key geographic markets. The growth in the size and complexity of our business has placed and is expected to continue to place a significant strain on our management and operations. Continued growth will require us to recruit and hire a substantial number of new employees, including consulting and product development personnel. In particular, our ability to undertake new projects and increase license revenues is substantially dependent on the availability of our consulting personnel to assist in the licensing and implementation of our software solutions. We will not be able to continue to increase our business at historical rates without adding significant numbers of personnel skilled in software implementation and integration. Although we have not incurred significant difficulty in the hiring and training of skilled employees to date, there can be no assurance that we will effectively locate, retain or train additional personnel in the future. If we do not sufficiently increase our integration and implementation workforce over time, we may be required to forego licensing opportunities. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, also will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. 4 We are heavily dependent upon the services of technical and managerial personnel who develop and implement our supply chain management software, and we may have to actively compete for their services. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical, managerial and consulting personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel. Our ability to install, maintain and enhance our supply chain management software is substantially dependent upon our ability to locate, hire and train qualified personnel. As supply chain management concepts have only recently been adopted in China, the number of qualified technical, managerial and consulting personnel is limited. Many of our technical, managerial and consulting personnel possess skills that would be valuable to all companies engaged in software development, and the Chinese software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Consequently, we expect that we will have to actively compete with other Chinese software developers for these employees. Our ability to profitably operate is substantially dependent upon our ability to locate, hire, train and retain our technical, managerial and consulting personnel. Although we have not experienced difficulty locating, hiring, training or retaining our employees to date, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract and assimilate other personnel in the future. If we are unable to effectively obtain and maintain skilled personnel, the quality of our software products and the effectiveness of installation and training could be materially impaired. Competition within the Chinese market for our software products is significant. We believe that while the Chinese market for supply chain management software is subject to intense competition, the number of significant competitors is relatively limited. According to the International Data Corporation, in 2006, total IT expenditures in China’s retail market were $552 million, the annual growth is projected to be 13.3% from 2006 to 2011. In 2007, total IT expenditures in China’s retail market were $625 million, and we generated approximately $11,500,000. As such, while we believe that we effectively compete in our market, our competitors occupy a substantial competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete in our industry on an ongoing basis. Our financial performance is dependent upon the sale and implementation of supply chain management software and related services, a single, concentrated group of products. We derive all of our revenues from the license and implementation of eight software applications for the Chinese supply chain industry, an industry that did not effectively exist in China in recent years, and from providing consulting services. The life cycle of our software is difficult to estimate due in large measure to the potential effect of new software, applications and enhancements (including those we introduce) on the maturation in the Chinese retail distribution, wholesaling and logistics industries. To the extent we are unable to continually improve our supply chain management software to address the changing needs of the Chinese supply chain front market, we may experience a significant decline in the demand for our programs. In such a scenario, our revenues may significantly decline. 5 The market for supply chain management software is intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are: · product quality; · reliability; · performance; · price; · vendor and product reputation; · financial stability; · features and functions; · ease of use; and · quality of support. A number of companies offer competitive products addressing certain of our target markets. In the enterprise systems market, we compete with in-house systems developed by our targeted customers and with third-party developers. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated enterprise-level systems targeting the Chinese supply chain. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. As a result of this product concentration and uncertain product life cycles, we may not be as protected from new competition or industry downturns as a more diversified competitor. Our financial performance is directly related to our ability to adapt to technological change and evolving standards when developing and improving our supply chain management software products. The software development industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards that may render existing software obsolete. In addition, as the Chinese economy has only recently begun to incorporate various Western economic factors, the concept of supply chain management has only recently been adopted by Chinese businesses. As a result, our position in the Chinese supply chain management software industry could be eroded rapidly by the speed with which Chinese businesses continue to adopt Western business practices and technological advancements that we do not embrace. The life cycles of our software are difficult to estimate. Our software products must keep pace with technological developments, conform to evolving industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of Chinese retailers, wholesalers, distributors and logistics companies. In particular, we believe that we must continue to respond quickly to users’ needs for broad functionality. While we attempt to upgrade our software every one to two years, we cannot guarantee that our software will continue to enjoy market acceptance. To the extent we are unable to develop and introduce products in a timely manner, we believe that participants in the Chinese supply chain will obtain products from our competitors promptly and our sales will correspondingly suffer. In addition, we strive to achieve compatibility between our products and retailing systems platforms that we believe are or will become popular and widely adopted. We invest substantial resources in development efforts aimed at achieving this compatibility. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technology or market developments, we could incur a loss of competitiveness or revenue. 6 We are substantially dependent upon our key personnel, particularly Adam Yan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. In particular, the services of: · Adam Yan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; · Deliang Tong, our Chief Operating Officer; · Qicheng Yang, our Technology Officer; · Hongjun Zou, our Chief Innovation Officer; · Ping Yu, our Chief Financial Officer; and · Tony Zhao, our Chief Strategy Officer. would be difficult to replace. We do not have in place “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could substantially impair our ability to successfully implement our existing supply chain management software and develop new programs and enhancements. As a software-oriented business, our ability to operate profitably is directly related to our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, nondisclosure and copyright law to protect our supply chain management software, which may afford only limited protection. Although the Chinese government has issued us 16 copyrights on our software, we cannot guarantee that competitors will be unable to develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties, including customers, may attempt to reverse engineer or copy aspects of our software products or to obtain and use information that we regard proprietary. Although we are currently unaware of any unauthorized use of our technology, in the future, we cannot guarantee that others will not use our technology without proper authorization. We develop our software products on third-party middleware software programs that are licensed by our customers from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. We currently utilize six major suppliers of these middleware programs. Considering the fact that we believe that there are a number of widely available middleware programs available, we do not currently anticipate that our customers will experience difficulties obtaining these programs. The termination of any such licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to adequately maintain or update their products, could result in delay in our ability to ship certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources. Nonetheless, while it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses, there can be no assurance that they will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the future, we may receive notices claiming that we are infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. While we believe that we do not infringe and have not infringed upon the rights of others, we cannot guarantee that we will not become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to our current programs or future software developments. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or force us to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of such claims, thereby impairing our financial performance by requiring us to pay additional royalties and/or license fees to third parties. We have not been the subject of an intellectual property claim since our formation. 7 Our supply chain management software may contain integration challenges, design defects or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Implementation of our software may involve a significant amount of systems developed by third parties. Although we have not experienced a material number of defects associated with our software to date, despite extensive testing, we may, from time to time, discover defects or errors in our software only after use by a customer. We may also experience delays in shipment of our software during the period required to correct such errors. In addition, we may, from time to time, experience difficulties relating to the integration of our software products with other hardware or software in the customer’s environment that are unrelated to defects in our software products. Such defects, errors or difficulties may cause future delays in product introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications or impair customer satisfaction with our software. Since our software solutions are used by our customers to perform mission-critical functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential problems within or out of our control that may arise from the use of our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers. To date, however, we have not had significant difficulties integrating our software into our customers’ existing systems. We do not maintain product liability insurance. Although our license agreements with customers contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims as well as any liabilities arising from such claims, such provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims and the liability and costs associated therewith. To the extent we are found liable in a product liability case, we could be required to pay a substantial amount of damages to an injured customer, thereby impairing our financial condition. We may not pay dividends. We have not previously paid any cash dividends nor do we anticipate paying any dividends on our ordinary shares. Although we achieved profitability for the first time in 2004, we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate at profitable levels or to generate positive cash flows. Indeed, we had a net loss of RMB27,480,747 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Furthermore, there is no assurance our Board of Directors will declare dividends even if we are profitable. Dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Under Cayman law, we may only pay dividends from profits or credit from the share premium account (the amount paid over par value, which is $0.0756), and we must be solvent before and after the dividend payment. If we determine to pay dividends on any of our ordinary shares in the future, as a holding company, we will be dependent on receipt of funds from our operating subsidiary. A slowdown in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The Chinese economy has grown at an approximately 9 percent rate for more than 25 years, making it the fastest growing major economy in recorded history. Much of this growth has occurred in our customers’ industries. For example: · China’s economy grew by 11.4% in 2007, the fastest pace in 11 years · in the last decade, the number of supermarkets in China increased from zero to more than 60,000; 8 · retail sales in China increased 10.2% in 2004; · industrial growth in China increased 16.7% in 2004; · enterprise software revenues for all industry participants generated from Chinese wholesale and retail customers increased 32.5% from $22.52 million in 2002 to $27.16 million in 2003; and · enterprise software revenues for all industry participants generated from Chinese manufacturing customers increased 15.9% from $140.3 million in 2002 to $162.5 million in 2003. We cannot assure you that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may recur in the foreseeable future. More recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. Adverse changes in the Chinese economy will likely impact the financial performance of the retailing, distribution, logistics and manufacturing industries in China. Consequently, under such circumstances, our customers may opt to delay discretionary expenditures like those for our software, which, in turn, could result in a material reduction in our sales. We do not have business interruption, litigation or natural disaster insurance. The insurance industry in China is still at an early state of development. In particular PRC insurance companies offer limited business products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business interruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our business incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, a U.S. investor will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: · 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income; or · the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets is based, in part, on the then market value of our ordinary shares, which is subject to change. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in our contemplated initial public offering, if any. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. 9 Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, pandemic avian influenza or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect the Chinese economy as a whole and our ability to profitably develop and install our software products. A renewed outbreak of SARS, pandemic avian influenza or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our revenues are derived, and in Beijing, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be affected by a number of health-related factors, including the foregoing: · quarantines or closures of some or our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. The possible quarantine of our offices or the sickness or death of our key officers and employees would restrict our ability to develop and implement our software products, thereby negatively impacting our sales. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our markets or our ability to operate profitably. A slowdown of the Chinese economy as a whole could reduce the level of discretionary expenditures by Chinese business in the retailing, distribution, logistics and manufacturing industries, thereby resulting in a material reduction in the demand for our products. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends and/or pursue any acquisition strategy that we may implement in the future. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of a PRC company’s assets or equity interest to foreign entities, such as us, for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice clarifying the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents had been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the issuance of the January notice, each of the PRC residents is required to submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch to register his or her respective ownership interests in the offshore company. The PRC resident must also amend such registration form if there is a material event affecting the offshore company, such as, among other things, a change to share capital, a transfer of shares, or if such company is involved in a merger and an acquisition or a spin-off transaction or uses its assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. SAFE indicated that these registration provisions applied retroactively to offshore restructurings, like ours, that were completed prior to the initial public notice of the new requirements in January 2005. However, SAFE did not impose any time limit within which PRC residents must complete the mandated registration. The April notice also provided that failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may result in the imposition of restrictions on the PRC company’s foreign exchange activities and its ability to distribute profits to its offshore parent company. 10 On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued a new public notice concerning PRC residents’ investments through offshore investment vehicles. This notice took effect on November 1, 2005 and replaces prior SAFE notices on this topic. According to the November 2005 notice: · any PRC resident that created an off-shore holding company structure prior to the effective date of the November notice must submit a registration form to a local SAFE branch to register his or her ownership interest in the offshore company on or before May 31, 2006; · any PRC resident that purchases shares in a public offering of a foreign company would also be required to register such shares and notify SAFE of any change of their ownership interest; and · following the completion of an off-shore financing, any PRC shareholder may transfer proceeds from the financing into China for use within China. To the extent a PRC investor desires to purchase our ordinary shares in the secondary market, such resident must obtain SAFE and other relevant government approval prior to such investment. Upon the sale of our ordinary shares in the secondary market, a PRC resident must promptly notify SAFE of a material change in ownership. As (a) we do not anticipate a significant number of PRC residents participating in our secondary market and (b) SAFE regulations generally focus upon the initial foreign exchange transaction by which a PRC resident will purchase our ordinary shares, we do not anticipate that SAFE regulations will impact the resale of our ordinary shares in any significant manner. Most recently, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, CSRC and SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors. This regulation became effective on September 8, 2006 and includes provisions that purport to require offshore special purpose vehicles: · controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or citizens; and · formed for the purpose of effecting an overseas listing of a PRC company to obtain the approval of CSRC prior to the completion of the overseas listing. On September 8, 2006, CSRC published procedures regarding the approval process associated with overseas listings of special purpose vehicles. There is little precedent as to how CSRC will interpret the new regulation and apply the related procedures. We completed the formation of our offshore holding company structure prior to the implementation of the new regulation. Further, given that these new regulations are not retroactive in nature, we are not currently required to seek and obtain governmental approval to complete the offering contemplated hereby. The PRC government, however, could alter its interpretations of the regulation at any time. To the extent the PRC government alters its current practice of remaining silent regarding overseas listings of PRC businesses like ours, we may be required to seek additional government approval to complete this offering, and we cannot guarantee that we would obtain such approval. 11 eFuture Beijing is subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investment in eFuture Beijing, our subsidiary. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on the dividends payments from eFuture Beijing. However, PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. eFuture Beijing may also be required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if eFuture Beijing incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiary are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of our ordinary shares. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiary. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiary to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of our ordinary shares. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiary in China. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would make any new Renminbi denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for such purposes. An appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into Renminbi, as the Renminbi is our reporting currency. 12 Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”). These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. If PRC law were to phase out the preferential tax benefits currently being extended to foreign invested enterprises and “new or high-technology enterprises” located in a high technology zone, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under PRC laws and regulations, a foreign invested enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is registered in a high-technology zone and also qualifies as a “new or high-technology enterprise”. As a foreign invested enterprise as well as a certified “new or high-technology enterprise” located in a high-technology zone in Beijing, we are entitled to a three-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from our first year of operation, a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate for another three years followed by a 15% tax rate so long as we continue to qualify as a “new or high-technology enterprise.” Furthermore, we may apply for a refund of the 5% business tax levied on our total revenues derived from our technology consulting services. If the PRC law were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to “new or high-technology enterprises” and technology consulting services, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which currently is 25%, and we would be unable to obtain business tax refunds for our provision of technology consulting services. 13 China’s legal system embodies uncertainties that could adversely affect our ability to engage in the development and integration of the supply chain management software. Since 1979, the Chinese government has promulgated many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters. Despite this activity to develop a legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain or sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary, in many cases, creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Noting that our business is substantially dependent upon laws protecting intellectual property rights, any ambiguity in the interpretation or implementation of such laws may negatively impact our business, its financial condition and results of operation. Our activities in China will also be subject to administration review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Although we have obtained all required governmental approval to operate our business as currently conducted, to the extent we are unable to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals, the Chinese government may, in its sole discretion, prohibit us from conducting our business. Shareholder rights under Cayman Islands law may differ materially from shareholder rights in the United States, which could adversely affect the ability of us and our shareholders to protect our and their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law (2004 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate laws. Moreover, our company could be involved in a corporate combination in which dissenting shareholders would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of United States corporations. Also, our Cayman Islands counsel is not aware of a significant number of reported class actions or derivative actions having been brought in Cayman Islands courts. Such actions are ordinarily available in respect of United States corporations in U.S. courts. Finally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests may be limited if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. 14 As we are a Cayman Islands company and most of our assets are outside the United States, it will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against us and our officers, directors and assets based in China. We are a Cayman Islands exempt company, and our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2004 Revision) and other applicable Cayman Islands laws. Certain of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. In addition, the Company’s assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or officers and our subsidiaries, or enforce against any of them court judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments relating to United States federal securities laws. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands and of other offshore jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or other offshore jurisdictions predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in China, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in United States court. There can be no guarantee that China will comply with the membership requirements of the World Trade Organization. Due in part to the relaxation of trade barriers following World Trade Organization accession in January 2002, we believe China will become one of the world’s largest markets by the middle of the twenty-first century. As a result, we believe the Chinese market presents a significant opportunity for both domestic and foreign companies. With the Chinese accession to the World Trade Organization, Chinese industries are gearing up to face the new regimes that are required by World Trade Organization regulation. The Chinese government has begun to reduce its average tariff on imported goods. We believe that a tariff reduction on imported goods combined with increasing consumer demand in China may lead to increased demand for our logistics programs. China has also agreed that foreign companies will be allowed to import most products into any part of China. Current trading rights and distribution restrictions are to be phased out over a three-year period. In the sensitive area of intellectual property rights, China has agreed to implement the trade-related intellectual property agreement of the Uruguay Round. As our business is dependent upon the protection of our intellectual property in China and throughout the world, China’s decision to implement intellectual property protection standards that coordinate with other major economies is of critical importance to our business and its ability to generate profits. However, there can be no assurances that China will implement any or all of the requirements of its membership in the World Trade Organization in a timely manner, if at all. Item 