Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • changes in the volume and mix of our solutions sold in a particular quarter; • seasonality of our business cycle, given that our subscription volumes are normally lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter; • the timing and success of new product introductions or upgrades by us or our competitors; • costs associated with acquisitions of technologies and businesses; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services; • the amount and timing of non-recurring charges or expenditures related to expanding or discontinuing our operations; • changes in accounting policies or the adoption of new accounting standards; • our policy of expensing sales commissions at the time our customers are invoiced for a subscription agreement, while the majority of such revenue is recognized ratably over future periods; • changes in the estimates and assumptions used to determine the fair value of contingent consideration associated with our acquisitions; • fluctuations in our effective tax rate including changes in the mix of earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the deductibility of certain expenses and changes in uncertain tax positions; • foreign currency exchange rates; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; and • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments. Most of our expenses, such as salaries and third-party hosting co-location costs, are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 12 Table of Contents The markets for our cloud marketing software are emerging, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. The market for cloud-based software specifically designed for marketing is relatively new and emerging, making our business and future prospects difficult to evaluate. We have three distinct types of customers: small business owners, marketing professionals and PR professionals. These professionals work at companies of all sizes with PR professionals generally concentrated in large and mid-sized organizations and marketing professionals and small business owners generally concentrated in small and mid-sized organizations. Many large and mid-sized companies have often invested substantial personnel and financial resources in their PR departments, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based software and services specifically designed to address the marketing market. And many small businesses may have a single individual fulfilling multiple roles for marketing, if they have any marketing resource at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies of every size to increase their use of or begin using cloud-based solutions in general and for cloud marketing software and services in particular. You must consider our business and future prospects in light of the challenges, risks and difficulties we encounter in the new and rapidly evolving market of cloud marketing solutions. These challenges, risks and difficulties include the following: • generating sufficient revenue to attain or, if attained, maintain profitability; • managing growth in our operations; • managing the risks associated with developing new services and modules; • attracting and retaining customers; and • attracting and retaining key personnel. We may not be able to successfully address any of these challenges, risks and difficulties, including the other risks related to our business and industry described below. Further, if businesses do not perceive the benefits of our cloud-based solutions, then the market may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our solutions are sold pursuant to subscription agreements, and if our existing subscription customers elect either not to renew these agreements or renew these agreements for fewer modules or users, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. A portion of our solutions are sold pursuant to subscription agreements and our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements. As a result, we may not be able to consistently and accurately predict future renewal rates. Our subscription customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate or our subscription customers may renew for fewer modules or users as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, budgetary or other concerns, and the availability and pricing of competing products. Additionally, we may lose our subscription customers due to the high turnover rate in the marketing or PR departments of small and mid-sized organizations. If large numbers of existing subscription customers do not renew these agreements, or renew these agreements on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new subscription agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable subscription agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new subscription agreements may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from our subscription customers over the terms of their subscription agreements. The majority of our quarterly revenue usually represents deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed subscription agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our 13 Table of Contents revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription-based revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. We are subject to risks related to credit card payments we accept. If we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, we may incur additional fees, fines and ultimately the revocation of the right to accept credit card payments, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of the customers of our services, including our newly acquired email marketing service offerings, pay amounts owed to us using a credit card or debit card. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and adversely affect our net income. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted making it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We might not generate increased business from our current customers, which could limit our revenue in the future. The success of our strategy is dependent, in part, on the success of our efforts to sell additional services to our existing customers. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or make additional purchases of our solutions. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or decrease. Our business model continues to evolve, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate or decline. Our business continues to evolve, expanding into new markets and new service areas, and is therefore subject to additional risk and uncertainty. For example, in 2008 we began offering solutions specifically for small businesses, in June 2010, we began providing social media monitoring services to our customers, in October 2011 we began offering a marketing suite targeted at small to mid-sized businesses, and in February 2012, we acquired iContact Corporation (iContact) which provides email marketing services. We anticipate that our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend, in part, upon the growth of these services and expansion beyond our current marketing automation solutions including our social media marketing and email marketing offerings. As more of our sales efforts are targeted at small business customers that are more substantively affected by economic conditions than the large and mid-sized business sectors, economic downturns may cause potential and existing small business customers to fail to purchase our solutions, which could limit our revenue in the future. We have increased sales of our services to small organizations, including small businesses, associations and non-profits that frequently have limited budgets and may be more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than their larger, more established counterparts. Small organizations may be more likely to spend the limited funds that they have on items other than our solutions. Additionally, if small organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on marketing, which would negatively affect demand for our solutions, increase customer attrition and adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We depend on search engines to attract new customers, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, we may be unable to attract new customers and our business may be harmed. We rely on search engines to attract new customers, and many of our customers locate our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic search results are determined and organized solely by automated criteria set by the search engine and a ranking level cannot be purchased. Advertisers can also pay search engines to place listings more prominently in search results in order to attract users to advertisers’ websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract customers to our websites. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, then our websites may not appear at all or may appear less prominently in search results which could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other potentially costly resources to advertise and market our services. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, or our revenue could decline and our business may suffer. Additionally, the cost of purchased search listing advertising is rapidly increasing as demand for these channels grows, and further increases could greatly increase our expenses. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force which may require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if we are unable to hire and develop talented direct sales personnel, if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our existing third-party channel partners if we are unable to maintain or renew such relationships, if any existing third-party channel partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our solutions for their customers, or if they represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services. If we fail to develop our brands, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. If our information databases do not maintain market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have developed our own content that is included in the information databases that we make available to our customers through our cloud-based software. If our internally-developed content does not maintain market acceptance, current customers may not continue to renew their subscription agreements with us, and it may be more difficult for us to acquire new customers. 15 Table of Contents We rely on third-parties to provide certain content for our solutions, and if those third-parties discontinue providing their content, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third-parties to provide or make available certain data for our information databases, our news monitoring service and our social media monitoring service. These third-parties may not renew agreements to provide content to us or may increase the price they charge for their content. Additionally, the quality of the content provided to us may not be acceptable to us and we may need to enter into agreements with additional third-parties. In the event we are unable to use such third-party content or are unable to enter into agreements with third-parties, current customers may not renew their subscription agreements with us or continue purchasing solutions from us, and it may be difficult to acquire new customers. We depend on search engines for the placement of our customers’ online news releases, and if those search engines change their listings or our relationship with them deteriorates or terminates, our reputation will be harmed and we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers. Our news distribution service depends upon the placement of our customers’ online press releases. If search engines on which we rely modify their algorithms or purposefully block our content, then information distributed via our news distribution service may not be displayed or may be displayed less prominently in search results, and as a result we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected. If the delivery of our customers’ emails is limited or blocked, customers may cancel their accounts. Internet service providers (ISP) can block emails from reaching their users. The implementation of new or more restrictive policies by ISPs may make it more difficult to deliver our customers’ emails. If ISPs materially limit or halt the delivery of our customers’ emails, or if we fail to deliver our customers’ emails in a manner compatible with ISPs’ email handling, authentication technologies or other policies, then customers may cancel their accounts which could harm our business and financial performance. Various private spam blacklists may interfere with the effectiveness of our products and our ability to conduct business. We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and our customers rely on email to communicate with journalists, social media influencers, and their customers and members. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that exceed legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. If our services are blacklisted our customers may be unable to effectively use our services, and as a result we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers’ use of our services and websites to transmit negative messages or links to harmful websites or applications could damage our reputation, and subject us to liability. Our customers could use our services or websites to transmit negative messages or links to harmful websites or applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted and trademarked material without permission, or report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. Any such use of our services could damage our reputation and we could face claims for damages, infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ 16 Table of Contents promotion of their products and services through our services may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. Facilitating these activities may expose us to liability including fines or penalties, or expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we may incur operating losses in the future. Our recent operating losses were $3.6 million for 2010 and $4.2 million for 2011. Although we had operating income in 2009, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we expand our operations, and if our increased operating expenses exceed our revenue growth, we may not be able to generate operating income. You should not consider recent quarterly revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future quarters, we may not have any revenue growth or our revenue could decline. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles. Changes in our effective tax rate could materially affect our net results. In addition, we are subject to income tax audits by certain tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. We face competition, and our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add and retain customers and could reduce or impede the growth of our business. The market for marketing solutions is fragmented, competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are limited barriers to entry to some segments of this market. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future as existing competitors develop their capabilities and as new companies enter our market. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to maintain our pricing rates and add and retain customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. We face competition from: • generic desktop software and other commercially available software not specifically designed for marketing; • marketing solution providers offering products specifically designed for marketing; • outsourced marketing service providers; • custom-developed solutions; • software companies offering social media solutions; • email marketing providers; and • press release distribution providers. 17 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, a larger presence in the marketing market, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, management, service, support and other resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. To the extent our competitors have an existing relationship with a potential customer, that customer may be unwilling to switch vendors due to existing time and financial commitments with our competitors. We also expect that new competitors, such as enterprise software vendors and cloud-based service providers that have traditionally focused on enterprise resource planning or back office applications, will enter the cloud marketing market with competing products as the cloud marketing market develop and mature. Many of these potential competitors have established or may establish business, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, alliance partners or other third-parties or may combine and consolidate to become more formidable competitors with better resources. It is possible that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. Traditional press release distribution providers now offer press release distribution services through the Internet. We had or continue to have partnerships with these providers to co-market and sell our press release distribution services. It is possible that these competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect that many companies will offer solutions designed to help businesses promote themselves across social media channels. Given the rapid adoption of social media and the dynamic nature of the vendors in this market, it is possible that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. If we fail to respond to evolving industry standards, our solutions may become obsolete or less competitive. The market for our solutions is characterized by changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols, new technologies and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to enhance or develop new features for our existing solutions or develop acceptable new solutions that keep pace with these changes, our cloud-based software and services may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business will be harmed. The success of any enhancements, or new services depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our solutions. Failure to produce acceptable new offerings and enhancements may significantly impair our revenue growth and reputation. If there are interruptions or delays in providing our solutions due to third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with customers and subject us to liability. Our solutions reside on hardware that we own or lease and operate. Our hardware is currently located in various third-party data center facilities maintained and operated in the U.S. and Europe. Our third-party facility providers do not guarantee that our customers’ access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend, in part, on our third-party facility providers’ ability to protect systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our third-party facility arrangements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to such third-party facilities, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems, which are located at third-party data center facilities, have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring at our third-party facilities. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our cloud-based software. In addition, the failure by our third-party facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in such service or impede our ability to scale our operations. 18 Table of Contents We architect the system infrastructure and procure and own or lease the computer hardware used for our services. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our service. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to selectively acquire companies which either expand our solutions’ functionality, provide access to new customers or markets, or both. An acquisition may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired organizations, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. We also may experience lower rates of renewal from subscription customers obtained through acquisitions than our typical renewal rates. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized, that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities, or that such an acquisition will be viewed positively by our customers, stockholders, analysts or the financial markets. In connection with one or more of these transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute the ownership of our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions; • incur or assume debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of an acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; • problems arising from differences in the revenue, licensing or support of the acquired business; and • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. In 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Two Cats and a Cup of Coffee LLC (dba HARO) and Boxxet, Inc. (dba Engine140). In 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of North Venture Partners, LLC (North Social). In February 2012, we acquired iContact, an email marketing company. In 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Data Presse SAS and substantially all of the assets of BDL Media Ltd. Foreign acquisitions involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also affects our financial results. If we should proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we could be required 19 Table of Contents to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any such acquisition. For example, the purchase price of the iContact acquisition included approximately $90.5 million in cash. To the extent that we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. For example, as part of the purchase price for iContact, we issued 401,701 shares of our common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock that are initially convertible into 3,025,600 shares of our common stock. In addition, acquisitions may result in our incurring additional debt, material one-time write-offs, or purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring charges. They may also result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets in our financial statements which may be subject to future impairment charges or ongoing amortization costs, thereby reducing future earnings. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as incurring expenses that may impact operating results. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our solutions do not comply with our agreements or if there is a loss of data. The information in our databases may not be complete or may contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted by a number of factors, including our inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems or failure by our third-party data center facilities to meet our capacity requirements. In addition, computer viruses and intentional or unintentional acts of our employees may harm our systems causing us to lose data we maintain and supply to our customers or data that our customers input and maintain on our systems, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. Our subscription agreements generally give our customers the right to terminate their agreements for cause if we materially breach our obligations. Any failures in the services that we supply or the loss of any of our customers’ data that we cannot rectify in a certain time period may give our customers the right to terminate their agreements with us and could subject us to liability. As a result, we may also be required to spend substantial amounts to defend lawsuits and pay any resulting damage awards. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate data or experience interruptions in our ability to supply data, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Moreover, because our solutions are cloud-based, the amount of data that we store for our customers on our servers is ever-increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our customers’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our solutions and harm our reputation causing our business to suffer. In addition, any person who circumvents our security measures could steal proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations. We incur significant costs to protect against security breaches, and may incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Customers’ concerns about security could deter them from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve confidential information, so our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our business and financial results. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that this policy will cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation will be harmed, our market share would decline and we could be subject to product liability claims. Our cloud-based software may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures or otherwise cause our solutions to fail to perform in accordance with customer expectations. Because our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, 20 Table of Contents we could lose future sales or our existing subscription customers could elect to not renew. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our solutions fail to perform or contain a technical defect, a customer may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for our solutions’ failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration/dispute resolution or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such product liability claims. Also, our insurer may disclaim coverage. Our liability insurance also may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any product liability claim successfully brought against us could cause our business to suffer. Our news distribution service is a trusted information source. To the extent we were to distribute an inaccurate or fraudulent press release or our customers used our services to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications, our reputation could be harmed, even though we are not responsible for the content distributed via our services. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our solution and adversely affect our business. We provide contact information to our customers and our customers can use our service to store contact and other personal or identifying information regarding their marketing contacts. Federal, state and foreign government agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from individuals. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, prohibit or limit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages, in emails or on the Internet. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and marketing industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us or our customers which could reduce demand for our solutions. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to us and to the businesses of our customers may reduce demand for our solutions, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws and could negatively impact our ability to effectively market our solutions. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, could cause our business to suffer. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium and the use of email and social media for marketing or other consumer communications. In addition, certain government agencies or private organizations have begun to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or for sending commercial email. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services such as ours and reduce the demand for our products. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents U.S. federal legislation and the laws of many foreign countries impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our products, particularly our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our products. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email such as the laws of Canada and the United Kingdom, whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business, and our reputation would suffer. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, it will reduce our ability to compete for business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to our products, which could decrease demand for our solutions. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying our solutions or otherwise infringing on our intellectual property rights. Existing laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop solutions similar or superior to ours. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our solutions are or may be licensed do not protect our solutions and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Source code, the detailed program commands for our software programs, is critical to our business. Although we take measures to protect our source code, unauthorized disclosure or reverse engineering of a significant portion of our source code could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our business. If a third-party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third-parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters, or other forms of communication. We cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third-parties, as currently pending patent applications are not publicly available. We expect that the number of infringement 22 Table of Contents claims in our market will increase as the number of solutions and competitors in our industry grows. These claims, whether or not successful, could: • divert management’s attention; • result in costly and time-consuming litigation; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; or • require us to redesign our solutions to avoid infringement. We may be liable or alleged to be liable to third parties for software or content that we provide to our customers if the software or content violates a third party’s intellectual property rights, or if our customers violate such rights by providing content using our solutions. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling in any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third-parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management’s time, which could adversely affect our business. Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2011, the number of our full-time equivalent employees increased from 146 to 780. We anticipate that additional growth will be required to address increases in our customer base, as well as expansion into new geographic areas. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To date, we have not experienced any significant problems as a result of the rapid growth in our headcount, other than occasional office space constraints. However, our anticipated future growth may place greater strains on our resources. For instance, if our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees as needed, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The additional headcount and capital investments we expect to add will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner if at all. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development personnel because of the complexity of our service and technologies. We do not have employment agreements with any of our development personnel that require them to remain our employees nor do the employment agreements we have with our executive officers require them to remain our employees and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance on any of our executives, and such insurance, if obtained in the future, may not be sufficient to cover the costs of recruiting and hiring a replacement or the loss of an executive’s services. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior sales executives and engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than us. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options and awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Because we conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions, which accounted for approximately 14% of our 2011 revenues, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. Conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international operations and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Our debt covenants restrict our operational flexibility. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of operational covenants, which, among other things, impose certain limitations on us with respect to expansion of our lines of business, effecting mergers, investments and acquisitions, incurring additional indebtedness, paying dividends or distributions, repurchasing shares of our common stock, entering into guarantees, and incurring liens and encumbrances. Our indebtedness under the credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and of our subsidiaries, by a pledge of our and certain of our subsidiaries’ stock and by a guarantee of our subsidiaries. If the amounts outstanding under the credit facility were accelerated due to an event of default, the lender could proceed against such available collateral by forcing the sale of all or some of these assets. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in further equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive 24 Table of Contents covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Economic and market conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic downturns, which have resulted in declines in corporate spending, decreases in consumer confidence and tightening in the credit markets, may adversely affect our financial condition and the financial condition and liquidity of our customers and suppliers. Among other things, these economic and market conditions may result in: • reductions in the corporate budgets, including technology spending of our customers and potential customers; • declines in demand for our solutions; • decreases in collections of our customer receivables; • insolvency of our key vendors and suppliers; and • volatility in interest rates and decreases in investment income. Any of these events, which are outside of our scope of control, would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Compliance with new regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is uncertain and expensive. Many new laws, regulations and standards have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices and have created uncertainty for public companies. These new laws, regulations and standards are subject to interpretations due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by varying regulatory bodies. This may cause continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our implementation of these reforms and enhanced new disclosures may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a significant diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Any unanticipated difficulties in implementing these reforms could result in material delays in complying with these new laws, regulations and standards or significantly increase our operating costs. 25 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures would have a material adverse effect on our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material, the market price of our stock may decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Risks Related to our Common Stock and the Securities Markets JMI Equity’s significant ownership interest dilutes the interests of our common stockholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and grants important rights to JMI Equity. The 1,000,000 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock that we issued in February 2012 to JMI Equity Fund VI, L.P. (JMI Equity) were immediately convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 3.0256 shares of common stock per share of Series A convertible preferred stock (subject to customary adjustments, and subject to increase if we fail to fulfill our obligation to redeem the preferred stock on February 24, 2017). The investment equates to an initial ownership interest of approximately 13%, assuming the full conversion of each share of preferred stock into the company’s common stock. While the shares of preferred stock issued to JMI Equity, and any shares of common stock into which such shares are converted, are subject to a “lock-up” agreement prohibiting their sale until February 24, 2013 (subject to certain limited exceptions), any sales in the public market of the shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion after that date could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. On February 24, 2017, we will be required to redeem each issued and outstanding share of Series A convertible preferred stock for $77.30 per share from our legally available funds, or such lesser amount of shares as we may then redeem under Delaware law. The shares of preferred stock will vote on an as-converted basis with the common stock, voting together as a single class, provided that the holders of the preferred stock shall vote separately as a class on certain matters affecting the preferred stock. If any shares of preferred stock are outstanding on or after February 24, 2017, the holders of the preferred stock will have the right to vote separately as a class on additional actions by Vocus related to acquisitions, redemptions, dividends, capital stock, and indebtedness. In addition, for so long as the outstanding shares of preferred stock continue to represent at least 5% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock, calculated assuming the conversion of all outstanding shares of preferred stock into shares of common stock, the holders of the preferred stock, voting as a separate class, will have the exclusive right to elect one director to our board of directors (Series A Director). In addition, pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement with JMI Equity, the holders of the preferred stock have the right to nominate a director to the board of directors for as long as they hold 5% or more of our issued and outstanding capital stock (which nominee shall be the Series A Director for so long as the holders of preferred stock have the right to elect the Series A Director). These provisions, as well as other terms of the Series A convertible preferred stock, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. There can be no assurance that the interests of JMI Equity or any subsequent holders of the Series A convertible preferred stock are or will be aligned with those of our other stockholders. Investor interests can differ from each other and from other corporate interests and it is possible that this significant stockholder may have interests that differ from management and those of other stockholders. If JMI Equity or any subsequent holders of the preferred stock were to sell, or otherwise transfer, all or a large percentage of their holdings, our stock price could decline and we could find it difficult to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. 26 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. There are many large, well-established publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • seasonality of our business cycle; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the on-demand software industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • threatened or actual litigation; • material announcements by us or our competitors including new product or service introductions and acquisitions of businesses, products, technologies or services; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • economic conditions including a slowdown in economic growth and uncertainty in equity and credit markets; and • general political conditions such as acts of war or terrorism. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for cloud-based companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of 66 2/3 percent of our stockholders; • require super-majority voting to amend our bylaws or specified provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend, or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our directors and officers hold shares of our common stock that they generally are currently able to sell in the public market. We have also registered shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding stock options, or reserved for issuance under our stock option plan, which shares can generally be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Moreover, from time to time, our executive officers and directors have established trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 