D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — If we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services, our business and growth prospects could be seriously harmed.” Network Marketing. Using our ProTheme contextual promotion technology, we offer Network Marketing, a service that enables our customers’ textual or graphical promotional links to be displayed on the properties of Baidu Union members where the customers’ links are relevant to the subject and content of such Baidu Union members’ websites. We generate revenues from our Network Marketing service based on the number of clicks on our customers’ links and share the revenues with our Baidu Union members in accordance with pre-agreed terms. Fixed Ranking. Our fixed ranking services allow our customers to display query sensitive text links at a designated location on our search results pages. Our customers pay us an amount based primarily on the location of their text links on our web pages. Targetizement. We offer services, branded “Targetizement,” that enable our customers to reach their targeted Internet users by displaying their advertisements only when their targeted Internet users browse certain Baidu web pages. The customers pay us a fee based on the number of clicks on their advertisements. Baidu TV. We operate our advertising service, Baidu TV, in partnership with Ads it! Media Corporation, an online advertising agency and technology company. Baidu TV provides advertisers access to the websites of our Baidu Union members, allowing advertisers to choose websites on which they post their video advertisements with the aid of our advertisement targeting and matching system. The customers pay us a fee based on the number of effective views on their advertisements. An effective view is counted when a video advertisement runs at least five seconds before a viewer closes it. Brand-Link. We offer a brand advertising service, Brand-Link. When Internet users conduct a keyword search using brand names of our customers who subscribe to our Brand-Link services, the search will generate a wide range of brand-specific content, including news reports, promotional announcements, product information and marketing campaigns. The customers pay us a fee based on the duration of the placement of the brand-specific content. Other Forms of Online Advertising. Other forms of our online advertising services allow customers to display query sensitive and non-query sensitive advertisements on our websites, including graphical advertisements. Our advertising contracts are generally of short term. Standard rates for online advertisements vary 39 Table of Contents depending on several factors, including the term of the contract, channel and traffic reach and the size and position of the advertisement on our web pages. In addition to the marketing services described above, from which we generate our online marketing revenues, we also offer a variety of value-added services and platforms designed to aid our online marketing customers in determining their best marketing solutions and better managing their marketing spending. Baidu Compass is a platform that helps our online marketing customers, primarily medium and large enterprises, to determine their best marketing solutions based on our analysis of search user behaviors. Baidu Holmes is a platform that helps our online marketing customers to evaluate the effect of our online marketing solutions by providing various data and analyses that could be used to monitor ROIs. Baidu Union members can also benefit from Baidu Holmes in better managing their websites through the data and analyses provided by this platform. My Marketing Center is a customized platform integrating industry information, market trends and business and industry news and reports to assist existing customers in their sales and marketing efforts. The platform combines our vast resources in online information search and aggregation to help customers make better use of search marketing tools to improve customer targeting, increase sales and enhance brand impact. Baidu Union Baidu Union consists of a large number of third-party web content and software providers. Baidu Union members can display on their properties our customers’ promotional links that match the content on such members’ properties. Some Baidu Union members also incorporate a Baidu search box or toolbar into their websites. Their users can conduct search via the Baidu search box or toolbar and can click on our customers’ promotional links located on their properties. Our relationships with Baidu Union members allow them to provide high-quality and relevant search results to their users without the costs associated with building and maintaining advanced search capabilities in-house. Moreover, our Baidu Union members can monetize their traffic and content through revenue sharing arrangements with us, which are based on the number of click-throughs from their users on our customers’ promotional links. The click-throughs can be either on our customers’ promotional links reached through the Baidu search box or toolbar located on the Baidu Union members’ websites or directly on our customers’ promotional links located on the Baidu Union Members’ properties. We intend to recruit additional Baidu Union members to further increase traffic to our Baidu.com website. Our Customers Online Marketing. We serve a broad range of online marketing customers consisting of SMEs throughout China, large domestic corporations and Chinese divisions or subsidiaries of large, multinational corporations. We have a diverse customer base in terms of industries and geographical locations. The industries in which our customers operate include medical, machinery, education, franchising, electronic products, e-commerce, ticketing, tourism, information technology services, consumer products, real estate, entertainment, financial services, and other industries. Customers in the top five industries contributed approximate 50% of our total online marketing revenues in 2009. Although we have customers located throughout China, we have a more active and larger customer base in coastal regions, reflecting the current general economic demographics in China. Our online marketing customers are increasingly seeking marketing solutions with measurable results in order to maximize their ROI. In response to this trend, we manage our sales activities for our online marketing services around two key customer categories: P4P customers and tailored solutions customers. • P4P Customers — Our P4P customers are those who primarily use our auction-based P4P services. They are generally SMEs with modest marketing budgets and, as a result, require cost-effective online marketing solutions to reach their potential customers. Our P4P platform allows them, directly or through our distributors, to easily manage their online marketing spending on a prepaid basis. • Tailored Solutions Customers — Our tailored solutions customers generally seek solutions to meet certain pre-determined performance metrics, such as number of click-throughs, duration of placement, number of converted users and number of telephone calls. They are generally medium and large enterprises with dedicated online marketing budgets. Depending on their objectives and desired end results, we design 40 Table of Contents customized performance-based solutions comprising of P4P, fixed ranking and other query and non-query sensitive marketing services. Sales and Distribution We sell our online marketing services directly and through our distribution network. Historically, we have acquired our P4P customers primarily through our nationwide network of third-party distributors and, to a lesser extent, through our direct sales force. In early 2005, we started to establish direct sales offices in a number of major cities in China. Currently, we have direct sales presence in Shanghai, Beijing and major cities in Guangdong Province. Our distributors provide numerous services, including identifying customers, collecting payments, assisting customers in setting up accounts with us, suggesting keywords to maximize ROI and engaging in other marketing and educational services aimed at acquiring customers. We offer discounts to distributors as consideration for their services. We have relied on distributors for several reasons. Our P4P customer base in China is geographically diverse and fragmented, as most of our P4P customers are SMEs located in different regions in China. Moreover, SMEs are generally less experienced with online marketing as compared to large companies and therefore benefit from the extensive services provided by distributors. Finally, secure online payment and credit card systems are in early stages of development in China. Distributors serve as an important channel to reach SME customers throughout China and collect payments from them. We offer our tailored marketing solutions to medium and large corporate customers through third-party agencies and our direct sales force. We have local sales staff in Beijing, Shanghai and major cities in Guangdong Province, including Shenzhen, Guangzhou, and Dongguan, covering the largest regional markets for our online advertising services. Marketing Historically, our user base grew primarily through word-of-mouth. We focus on continuously improving the quality of our products and services, as we believe satisfied users and customers are more likely to recommend our products and services to others. Through these efforts and the increased use of the Internet in China, we have built our brand with modest marketing expenditures. Our initial public offering in 2005 and subsequent positive media coverage have significantly enhanced our brand recognition. In addition, we have implemented a number of marketing initiatives designed to promote our brand awareness among potential users and customers. For example, we purchased advertisements shown during CCTV’s 2009 Spring Festival Gala, the most watched show on China’s largest nationwide television network. We have also conducted cross-marketing activities with a number of leading consumer brands. In addition, with the assistance from our distributors, we conduct localized marketing activities tailored to potential customers in various regions. We also organize and sponsor seminars and discussion forums targeted at existing and potential customers. Competition The Internet search industry in China is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our primary competitors include U.S.-based Internet search providers providing Chinese language Internet search services and Chinese Internet companies. We compete with these entities for both users and customers on the basis of user traffic, quality (relevance) and quantity (index size) of search results, availability and ease of use of our products and services, the number of customers, distribution channels and the number of associated third-party websites. We also face competition from traditional advertising media. Furthermore, our instant messaging and e-commerce services face competition from leading providers of these services in China. U.S.-based Internet Search Providers. U.S.-based Internet search providers such as Google and Microsoft have a strong global presence, well-established brand names, more users and customers and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Google’s Chinese website google.cn is our major competitor in Chinese language 41 Table of Contents search. We may also continue to face competition from other existing competitors and new entrants in the Chinese language search market. Chinese Internet Companies. Chinese Internet portals such as Sohu, Netease and Tencent offer a broad range of online services, including search service. Sohu has its own search engine, “Sogou,” and Tencent also has its own search engine, “SOSO.” Each of our Chinese competitors has generated significant traffic, a loyal user base and a large and broad customer base. These portals have widely recognized brand names in China and some have greater financial resources than we do. We compete with these portals primarily for user traffic and online advertising. In addition, we compete with B2B service providers such as Alibaba, which also offers search services on its websites. Other Advertising Media. Other advertising media, such as newspapers, yellow pages, magazines, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio, compete for a share of our customers’ marketing budgets. Large enterprises currently spend a relatively small percentage of their marketing budgets on online marketing as compared to the percentage they spend on other advertising media. Instant Messaging and E-commerce Service Providers. Baidu Hi, our instant messaging service, competes primarily with Tencent’s QQ and MSN Messenger. Baidu Youa, our e-commerce platform, faces competition primarily from e-commerce service providers such as Alibaba’s Taobao, Tencent’s Paipai and Eachnet, a joint venture of eBay and Tom Online. Technology We provide our web search and P4P technology using our network of computers running customized software developed in-house. Our key technologies include: Web Search Technology Our web search technology applies a combination of techniques to determine the importance of a web page independent of a particular search query and the relevance of that page to a particular search query. Link Analysis Techniques. Link analysis is a technique that determines the relevance between a user query and a web page by evaluating the combination of the anchor texts and the number of web pages linked to that web page. We treat a link from web page A to web page B as a “vote” by page A in favor of page B. The subject of the “vote” is described in the anchor texts of that link. The more “votes” a web page gets, the higher the relevance. We compare search queries with the content of web pages to help determine relevance. Our text-based scoring techniques do more than count the number of times a search term appears on a web page. For example, our technology determines the proximity of individual search terms to each other on a given web page, and prioritizes results where the search terms are near each other. Other aspects of a page’s content are also considered. By combining link analysis with our information extraction techniques, we are able to deliver relevant search results. Information Extraction Techniques. We extract information from a web page using high performance algorithms and information extraction techniques. Our techniques enable us to understand web page content, delete extraneous data, build link structures, identify duplicate and junk pages and decide whether to include or exclude a web page based on its quality. Our techniques can process millions of web pages quickly. In addition, our anti-spamming algorithms and tools can identify and respond to spamming web pages quickly and effectively. Web Crawling Techniques. Our powerful computer clusters and intelligent scheduling algorithms allow us to crawl Chinese web pages efficiently. We can easily scale up our system to collect billions of Chinese web pages. Our spider technology enables us to refresh web indices at intervals ranging from every few minutes to every few weeks. We set the index refresh frequency rate based on our knowledge of Internet search users’ needs and the nature of the information. For example, our news index is typically updated every three to five minutes throughout the day given the importance of timely information for news. We also mine multimedia and other forms of files from web page repositories. In December 2008, we announced Project Aladdin, an ongoing research and development effort aimed at uncovering useful parts of the “Hidden Web,” the part of the Internet that existing search engine technology may not be able to index, in order to enrich search results for our users. 42 Table of Contents Chinese Language Processing Techniques. We analyze and understand Chinese web pages by processing word-segmentation and utilizing an encoding method based on Chinese language characteristics. For example, we can identify Chinese names on a web page. When a user searches for a person based on the person’s Chinese name, we can display the web pages that are specifically related to that person. We also mine user behavior and search interests from our large search query logs. We provide additional web search features such as advanced search, spell check and search by Chinese phonetics (Pinyin). P4P Technology Our P4P platform serves millions of relevant, targeted sponsored links each day based on search terms users enter or content they view on the web page. Our key P4P technology includes: P4P Auction System. We use a web-based auction system to enable customers to bid for positions and automatically deliver relevant, targeted promotional links on Baidu’s properties and Baidu Union members’ properties. The system starts by screening the relevance between the sponsored links and a particular query. Our intelligent ranking system takes into consideration the quality factor of a keyword in addition to the price bid on the keyword. The quality factor of a keyword is determined based on the relevance of the keyword and certain other factors. The relevance of a keyword is determined based on the analysis of past search and click-through results. Links to customers’ websites are ranked according to a comprehensive ranking index, calculated based on both the quality factor of a keyword and the price bid or that keyword. We employ a dynamic mechanism for the determination of the minimum bidding price for each keyword. For determination of cost per click, or CPC, the system uses an automatic price reducing mechanism which automatically lowers the CPC to the minimum needed to maintain the desired position. In December 2009, we completed the switch from Online Marketing Classic Edition, our previous auction-based online marketing system, to Phoenix Nest, our new online marketing system. Compared with the previous auction system, Phoenix Nest, which is designed to generate more relevant advertisements, can help customers to more easily find users’ favorite search terms to bid on, and provides customers with more tools for budget management and more data for the effective measurement of ROI. P4P Billing System. We record every click and charge customers a fee by multiplying the number of clicks by the CPC. Our system is designed to detect fraudulent clicks based on factors such as click patterns and timestamps. This system also computes the amount a Baidu Union member or a distributor should be paid. The billing information is integrated with our internal Oracle ERP financial system. P4P Customer Service System. This system manages customer information such as targeted keywords, costs per click and performance analysis. ProTheme Contextual Promotion Technology. Our ProTheme technology employs techniques that consider factors such as theme finding, keyword analysis, word frequency and the overall link structure of the web to analyze the content of individual web pages and to match sponsored links in our P4P platform to the web pages almost instantaneously. With this targeting technology, we can automatically provide contextually relevant promotional links. For example, our technology can provide links offering tickets to fans of a specific sports team or a news story about that team. Branded Advertising Technology Targetizement Technology. Our Targetizement technology matches our customers’ advertisements with their targeted Internet users. Our automatic algorithm can analyze a user’s interests based on his or her past search experience and display advertisements that the user may be interested in viewing. Large-Scale Systems Technology We currently use a combination of off-the-shelf and custom software running on clusters of low-cost computers. Our investment in our large-scale system infrastructure has several key benefits: simplification of the storage and processing of large amounts of data, facilitation of the deployment and operation of large-scale 43 Table of Contents products and services, and automation of much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Moreover, this large infrastructure is easily scalable to increases in traffic and dataset volume. Our large-scale system infrastructure uses distributed software and high performance parallel computing technologies to provide high-quality web search services and web page collection with low cost computer clusters on a Linux operating system. We also have management information systems that enable us to perform tasks such as service operations, administration, trouble-shootings and filtering with relative ease and efficiency. In addition, we have software systems that can test new ideas with real search queries to evaluate the actual effects without affecting live services. Our infrastructure significantly improves the relevance of our search and advertising results by allowing us to apply superior search and retrieval algorithms that are computationally intensive. We believe this infrastructure also shortens our product development cycle and allows us to innovate more cost-effectively. We also constantly evaluate new hardware alternatives and software techniques to help further reduce our computational costs. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection laws in China and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and our brand. We have eight issued patents in China and intend to apply for more patents to protect our core technologies. We also enter into confidentiality, non-compete and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and nondisclosure agreements with selected third parties. , which is our company’s name “Baidu” in Chinese, has been recognized as a well-known trademark in China by the Trademark Office under the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. In addition to owning the trademark and the related logo, we have applied for registration of additional trademarks and logos, including , , and . We also have registered certain trademarks in Hong Kong, including and our company logo, and the United States, including “Baidu”. In addition, we have registered our domain name Baidu.com with register.com, Baidu.jp with humeia.co.jp and Baidu.cn, Baidu.com.cn, hao123.com, youa.com and certain other websites with China National Network Information Center, or CNNIC. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving and could involve substantial risks to us. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — We may face intellectual property infringement claims and other related claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and may result in our inability to continue providing certain of our existing services” and “— We may be subject to patent infringement claims with respect to our P4P platform.” Regulation The PRC government extensively regulates the telecommunications industry, including the Internet sector. The State Council, the MIIT and other relevant government authorities have promulgated an extensive regulatory scheme governing Internet-related services. This section summarizes the principal PRC laws and regulations relating to our business. In the opinion of Haiwen & Partners, our PRC legal counsel: (1) the ownership structure of our company, Baidu Online, Baidu China, Baidu Times, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay complies with current PRC laws and regulations; (2) subject to the disclosure and risks disclosed under “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure” and “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China”, our contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay and their shareholders are valid and binding on all parties to these arrangements and do not violate existing PRC laws or regulations; and (3) subject to the disclosure and risks disclosed under “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure” and “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China”, the business operations of our company, Baidu Online, Baidu China, Baidu Times, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay comply with current PRC laws and regulations in all material respects. 44 Table of Contents China’s Internet industry and online advertising market are at an early stage of development. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of existing or proposed PRC laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities would find that our corporate structure and our business operations comply with PRC laws and regulations. If the PRC government finds us to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations, we may be required to pay fines and penalties, obtain certain licenses or permits and change, suspend or discontinue our business operations until we comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations. Regulations on Value-Added Telecommunications Services and Internet Content Services In September 2000, the State Council promulgated the Telecommunications Regulations, or the Telecom Regulations. The Telecom Regulations categorize all telecommunications businesses in the PRC as either basic or value-added. Internet content services, or ICP services, are classified as value-added telecommunications businesses. Under the Telecom Regulations, commercial operators of value-added telecommunications services must first obtain an operating license from the MIIT or its provincial level counterparts. In September 2000, the State Council issued the Administrative Measures on Internet Information Services, or the Internet Measures. According to the Internet Measures, commercial ICP service operators must obtain an ICP license from the relevant government authorities before engaging in any commercial ICP operations within the PRC. In November 2000, the MIIT promulgated the Internet Electronic Messaging Service Administrative Measures, or the BBS Measures. BBS services include electronic bulletin boards, electronic forums, message boards and chat rooms. The BBS Measures require ICP operators to obtain specific approvals before providing BBS services. In December 2001, the MIIT promulgated the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating License, or the Telecom License Measures. In March 2009, the MIIT issued a revised Telecom License Measures, which took effect on April 10, 2009. The Telecom License Measures set forth the types of licenses required to operate value-added telecommunications services and the qualifications and procedures for obtaining such licenses. For example, an ICP operator providing value-added services in multiple provinces is required to obtain an inter-regional license, whereas an ICP operator providing the same services in one province is required to obtain a local license. National security considerations are an important factor in the regulation of Internet content in China. The National People’s Congress, the PRC’s national legislature, has enacted laws with respect to maintaining the security of Internet operation and Internet content. According to these laws, as well as the Internet Measures, violators may be subject to penalties, including criminal sanctions, for Internet content that: • opposes the fundamental principles stated in the PRC constitution; • compromises national security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; • harms the dignity or interests of the state; • incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; • undermines the PRC’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstitions; • disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; • disseminates obscenity or pornography, encourages gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of a crime; • insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of a third party; or • is otherwise prohibited by law or administrative regulations. ICP operators are required to monitor their websites, including electronic bulletin boards. They may not post or disseminate any content that falls within these prohibited categories and must remove any such content from their websites. 45 Table of Contents The PRC government may shut down the websites of ICP license holders that violate any of the above-mentioned content restrictions and revoke their ICP licenses. Restrictions on Foreign Ownership in Value-Added Telecommunications Services According to the Provisions on Administration of Foreign Invested Telecommunications Enterprises, or the FITE Provisions, promulgated by the State Council in December 2001 and amended in September 2008, the ultimate foreign equity ownership in a value-added telecommunications services provider must not exceed 50%. Moreover, for a foreign investor to acquire any equity interest in a value-added telecommunication business in China, it must satisfy a number of stringent performance and operational experience requirements, including demonstrating good track records and experience in operating value-added telecommunication business overseas. Foreign investors that meet these requirements must obtain approvals from the MIIT and the Ministry of Commerce (or the Ministry of Commerce’s authorized local counterparts), which retain considerable discretion in granting approvals. According to publicly available information, the PRC government has issued telecommunications business operating licenses to only a limited number of foreign invested companies, all of which are Sino-foreign joint ventures engaging in the value-added telecommunication business. We believe that it would be impracticable for us to acquire any equity interest in Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal or BaiduPay without diverting management attention and resources. In addition, we believe that our contractual arrangements with these entities and their respective individual shareholders provide us with sufficient and effective control over these entities. Accordingly, we currently do not plan to acquire any equity interest in any of these entities. In July 2006, the MIIT issued the Notice of the MIIT on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. This notice prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to this notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication business operating license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunication service providers are required to maintain network and Internet security in accordance with the standards set forth in relevant PRC regulations. If a license holder fails to comply with the requirements in the notice and cure such non-compliance, the MIIT or its local counterparts have the discretion to take measures against such license holders, including revoking their valued-added telecommunication business operating licenses. To comply with these PRC regulations, we operate our websites through Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal, our PRC affiliated entities. In February 2008, we assisted in establishing another consolidated affiliated entity, BaiduPay, which operate an online payment platform. Baidu Netcom is wholly owned by our chairman, chief executive officer and co-founder Robin Yanhong Li and our co-founder Eric Yong Xu, both of whom are PRC citizens. Beijing Perusal is wholly owned by two PRC citizens designated by our company. BaiduPay is wholly owned by Baidu Netcom and a PRC citizen designated by our company. Each of Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal holds a value-added telecommunications business operating license. It remains unclear whether the provision of online payment services by BaiduPay will require BaiduPay to apply for a value-added telecommunications business operating license for “online data processing and transaction processing businesses” as provided in the Catalog of Telecommunications Businesses promulgated by the MIIT. To comply with the Notice of the MIIT on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services, we have transferred certain domain names primarily used in our business to Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal, respectively, and have transferred certain trademarks to BaiduPay. We are also in the process of transferring certain trademarks, including pending trademark applications made by Baidu Online, to Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal, respectively. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — We may be adversely affected by the complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies.” 46 Table of Contents Regulations on News Display Displaying news on a website and disseminating news through the Internet are highly regulated in the PRC. In November 2000, the State Council News Office and the MIIT promulgated the Provisional Measures for Administrating Internet Websites Carrying on the News Displaying Business. These measures require an ICP operator (other than a government authorized news unit) to obtain State Council News Office approval to post news on its website or disseminate news through the Internet. Furthermore, the disseminated news must come from government-approved sources pursuant to contracts between the ICP operator and these sources, copies of which must be filed with the relevant government authorities. On September 25, 2005, the State Council News Office and the MIIT jointly issued the Provisions on the Administration of Internet News Information Services, requiring Internet news information service organizations to provide services as approved by the State Council News Office, subject to annual inspection under the new provisions. These Provisions also provide that no Internet news information service organizations may take the form of a foreign invested enterprise, whether a joint venture or a wholly foreign owned enterprise and no cooperation between Internet news information service organizations and foreign invested enterprise is allowed prior to the security evaluation by the State Council News Office. In December 2006, Baidu Netcom obtained the Internet news license, which permits it to publish Internet news pursuant to the relevant PRC laws and regulations. The Internet news license is subject to annual inspection by relevant government authorities. Regulations on Internet Culture Activities On May 10, 2003, the Ministry of Culture promulgated the Internet Culture Administration Tentative Measures, or the Internet Culture Measures, which was revised in July 2004. The Internet Culture Measures require ICP operators engaging in “Internet culture activities” to obtain a permit from the Ministry of Culture. The term “Internet culture activities” includes, among other things, online dissemination of Internet cultural products (such as audio-video products, gaming products, performances of plays or programs, works of art and cartoons) and the production, reproduction, importation, sale (wholesale or retail), leasing and broadcasting of Internet cultural products. We have hosted certain audio/video programs on the Baidu Movie channel since 2006. Baidu Netcom was granted an Internet culture business permit in April 2007. On November 20, 2006, the Ministry of Culture issued Several Suggestions of the Ministry of Culture on the Development and Administration of the Internet Music, or the Suggestions, which became effective on November 20, 2006. The Suggestions, among other things, reiterate the requirement for the Internet service provider to obtain the Internet culture business permit to carry on any business of Internet music products. In addition, foreign investors are prohibited from engaging in the Internet culture business operation. On August 26, 2009, the PRC Ministry of Culture promulgated the Notice on Strengthening and Improving the Content Review of Online Music dated August 18, 2009. According to this notice, only “Internet culture operating entities” approved by the Ministry of Culture may engage in the production, release, dissemination (including providing direct links to music products) and importation of online music products. Internet culture operating entities should establish strict self-monitoring system of online music content and set up special department in charge of such monitoring. Regulation on Broadcasting Audio/Video Programs through the Internet On July 6, 2004, the State Administration of Radio Film and Television promulgated the Rules for the Administration of Broadcasting of Audio/Video Programs through the Internet and Other Information Networks, or the A/V Broadcasting Rules. The A/V Broadcasting Rules apply to the opening, broadcasting, integration, transmission or download of audio/video programs via the Internet and other information networks. Anyone who wishes to engage in Internet broadcasting activities must first obtain an audio/video program transmission license, with a term of two years, issued by the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and operate pursuant to the scope as provided in such license. Foreign invested enterprises are not allowed to engage in the above business. 47 Table of Contents On April 13, 2005, the State Council announced Several Decisions on Investment by Non-state-owned Companies in Culture-related Business in China. These decisions encourage and support non-state-owned companies to enter certain culture-related business in China, subject to restrictions and prohibitions for investment in audio/video broadcasting, website news and certain other businesses by non-state-owned companies. These decisions authorize the Ministry of Culture, the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and the General Administration of Press and Publication to adopt detailed implementation rules according to these decisions. On December 20, 2007, the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and the MIIT jointly issued the Rules for the Administration of Internet Audio and Video Program Services, commonly known as Document 56, which came into effect as of January 31, 2008. Document 56 reiterates the requirement set forth in the A/V Broadcasting Rules that online audio/video service providers must obtain a license from the State Administration of Radio Film and Television. Furthermore, Document 56 requires all online audio/video service providers to be either wholly state-owned or state-controlled. According to relevant official answers to press questions published on the State Administration of Radio Film and Television’s website dated February 3, 2008, officials from the State Administration of Radio Film and Television and the MIIT clarified that online audio/video service providers that already had been operating lawfully prior to the issuance of Document 56 may re-register and continue to operate without becoming state-owned or controlled, provided that such providers have not engaged in any unlawful activities. This exemption will not be granted to online audio/video service providers established after Document 56 was issued. Baidu Netcom has obtained an audio/video program transmission license, which is valid from January 2010 to January 2013. Regulations on Advertisements The PRC government regulates advertising, including online advertising, principally through the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, although there are no national PRC laws or regulations specifically regulating online advertising business. Under the Rules for Administration of Foreign Invested Advertising Enterprise, promulgated by the State Administration for Industry and Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce in March 2004 and amended in October 2008, foreign investors are permitted to own equity interests in PRC advertising companies. However, foreign investors in wholly foreign-owned and joint venture Chinese advertising companies are required to have at least three years and two years, respectively, of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. Since we have not been involved in advertising outside of China for the required number of years, we cannot hold direct equity interests in PRC companies engaged in advertising business. We conduct our online advertising business through our consolidated affiliated entities in China, Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal. On November 30, 2004, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce issued the Administrative Regulations for Advertising Operation Licenses, taking effect as of January 1, 2005, granting a general exemption to enterprises (other than radio stations, television stations, newspapers and magazines, non-corporate entities and other entities specified in laws or administrative regulations) from the previous requirement to obtain an advertising operation license in addition to a business license. We conduct our online advertising business through Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal, each of which holds a business license that includes online advertising in its business scope. Advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors are required by PRC advertising laws and regulations to ensure that the contents of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are true and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, where a special government review is required for certain categories of advertisements before publishing, the advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and that relevant approval has been obtained. Violation of these regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce or its local branches may force the violator to terminate its advertising operation or even revoke its business license. Furthermore, advertisers, advertising operators or advertising distributors may be subject to civil liability if they infringe on the legal rights and interests of third parties. 48 Table of Contents Regulations on Software Products On October 27, 2000, the MIIT issued the Administrative Measures on Software Products, or the Software Measures, to strengthen the regulation of software products and to encourage the development of the PRC software industry. On March 1, 2009, the MIIT issued an amended Software Measures, which will become effective on April 10, 2009. The Software Measures provide a registration and filing system with respect to software products made in or imported into China. These software products may be registered with the competent local authorities in charge of software industry administration. Registered software products may enjoy preferential treatment status granted by relevant software industry regulations. Software products can be registered for five years, and the registration is renewable upon expiration. In order to further implement the Computer Software Protection Regulations promulgated by the State Council on December 20, 2001, the State Copyright Bureau issued the Computer Software Copyright Registration Procedures on February 20, 2002, which apply to software copyright registration, license contract registration and transfer contract registration. Regulations on Intellectual Property Rights China has adopted legislation governing intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents and copyrights. China is a signatory to the main international conventions on intellectual property rights and became a member of the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights upon its accession to the WTO in December 2001. Patent. The National People’s Congress adopted the Patent Law in 1984, and amended it in 1992, 2000 and 2008. The purpose of the Patent Law is to protect lawful interests of patent holders, encourage invention, foster applications of invention, enhance innovative capabilities and promote the development of science and technology. To be patentable, invention or utility models must meet three conditions: novelty, inventiveness and practical applicability. Patents cannot be granted for scientific discoveries, rules and methods for intellectual activities, methods used to diagnose or treat diseases, animal and plant breeds, substances obtained by means of nuclear transformation or a design which has major marking effect on the patterns or colors of graphic print products or a combination of both patterns and colors. The Patent Office under the State Council is responsible for receiving, examining and approving patent applications. A patent is valid for a term of twenty years in the case of an invention and a term of ten years in the case of utility models and designs. A third-party user must obtain consent or a proper license from the patent owner to use the patent. Otherwise, the use constitutes an infringement of patent rights. Copyright. The National People’s Congress adopted the Copyright Law in 1990 and amended it in 2001 to widen the scope of works and rights that are eligible for copyright protection. The amended Copyright Law extends copyright protection to Internet activities, products disseminated over the Internet and software products. In addition, there is a voluntary registration system administered by the China Copyright Protection Center. To address copyright issues relating to the Internet, the PRC Supreme People’s Court on November 22, 2000 adopted the Interpretations on Some Issues Concerning Applicable Laws for Trial of Disputes over Internet Copyright, or the Interpretations, which were subsequently amended on December 23, 2003 and November 20, 2006. The Interpretations establish joint liability for ICP operators if they knowingly participate in, assist in or incite infringing activities or fail to remove infringing content from their websites after receiving notice from the rights holder. In addition, any act intended to bypass circumvention technologies designed to protect copyrights constitutes copyright infringement. Upon request, the ICP operators must provide the rights holder with registration information of the alleged violator, provided that such rights holder has produced relevant identification, copyright certificate and evidence of infringement. An ICP operator is exempted from any liabilities as long as it removes the alleged infringing content after receiving the rights holder’s notice accompanied with proper evidence. To address the problem of copyright infringement related to the content posted or transmitted over the Internet, the PRC National Copyright Administration and the MIIT jointly promulgated the Measures for Administrative Protection of Copyright Related to Internet on April 29, 2005. This measure became effective on May 30, 2005. This measure applies to situations where an ICP operator (i) allows another person to post or store any works, recordings, audio or video programs on the websites operated by such ICP operator or (ii) provides links to, or 49 Table of Contents search results for, the works, recordings, audio or video programs posted or transmitted by such person, without editing, revising or selecting the content of such material. Upon receipt of an infringement notice from a legitimate copyright holder, an ICP operator must take remedial actions immediately by removing or disabling access to the infringing content. If an ICP operator knowingly transmits infringing content or fails to take remedial actions after receipt of a notice of infringement harming public interest, the ICP operator could be subject to administrative penalties, including: cessation of infringement activities; confiscation by the authorities of all income derived from the infringement activities; and payment of a fine of up to three times the unlawful income or, in cases where the amount of unlawful income cannot be determined, a fine of up to RMB100,000. An ICP operator is also required to retain all infringement notices for a minimum of six months and to record the content, display time and IP addresses or the domain names related to the infringement for a minimum of 60 days. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in an administrative warning and a fine of up to RMB30,000. On May 18, 2006, the State Council promulgated the Protection of the Right of Communication through Information Network, which became effective on July 1, 2006. Under this regulation, an Internet service provider may be exempted from liabilities for providing links to infringing or illegal content if it does not know that such content is infringing other parties’ rights or is illegal. However, if the legitimate owner of the content notifies the Internet service provider and requests removal of the links to the infringing content, the Internet service provider would be deemed to have constructive knowledge upon receipt of such notification but would be exempted from liabilities if it removes or disconnects the links to the infringing content at the request of the legitimate owner. At the request of the alleged violator, the Internet service provider should immediately restore links to content previously disconnected upon receipt of initial non-infringing evidence. We have adopted measures to mitigate copyright infringement risks. For example, our policy is to remove links to web pages if we know these web pages contain materials that infringe third-party rights or if we are notified by the legitimate copyright holder of the infringement with proper evidence. Trademark. The PRC Trademark Law, adopted in 1982 and revised respectively in 1993 and 2001, protects registered trademarks. The Trademark Office under the State Administration for Industry and Commerce handles trademark registrations and grants a term of ten years to registered trademarks. Trademark license agreements must be filed with the Trademark Office for record. is recognized as a well-known trademark in China by the Trademark Office under the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. In addition to owning the trademark and the related logo, we have applied for registration of additional trademarks and logos, including , , , and . In September 2002, the CNNIC issued the Implementing Rules for Domain Name Registration setting forth detailed rules for registration of domain names. On November 5, 2004, the MIIT promulgated the Measures for Administration of Domain Names for the Chinese Internet, or Domain Name Measures. The Domain Name Measures regulate the registration of domain names, such as the first tier domain name “.cn.” In February 2006, CNNIC issued the Measures on Domain Name Disputes Resolution and its implementing rules, pursuant to which CNNIC can authorize a domain name dispute resolution institution to decide disputes. We have registered Baidu.cn, Baidu.com.cn, hao123.com and certain other domain names with CNNIC. Regulations on Information Security The National People’s Congress has enacted legislation that prohibits use of the Internet that breaches the public security, disseminates socially destabilizing content or leaks state secrets. Breach of public security includes breach of national security and infringement on legal rights and interests of the state, society or citizens. Socially destabilizing content includes any content that incites defiance or violations of PRC laws or regulations or subversion of the PRC government or its political system, spreads socially disruptive rumors or involves cult activities, superstition, obscenities, pornography, gambling or violence. State secrets are defined broadly to include information concerning PRC national defense, state affairs and other matters as determined by the PRC authorities. According to other relevant regulations, ICP operators must complete mandatory security filing procedures and regularly update information security and censorship systems for their websites with local public security authorities, and must also report any public dissemination of prohibited content. 50 Table of Contents In addition, the State Secrecy Bureau has issued provisions authorizing the blocking of access to any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to comply with the relevant legislation regarding the protection of state secrets during online information distribution. Specifically, Internet companies in China with bulletin boards, chat rooms or similar services must apply for specific approval prior to operating such services. On November 23, 2005, the Ministry of Public Security promulgated Provisions on Technological Measures for Internet Security Protection, or Internet Protection Measures. The Internet Protection Measures require all ICP operators to keep records of certain information about its users (including user registration information, log-in and log-out time, IP address, content and time of posts by users) for at least 60 days and submit the above information as required by laws and regulations. As Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal are ICP operators, they are subject to the regulations relating to information security. They have taken measures to comply with such regulations. They are registered with the relevant government authority in accordance with the mandatory registration requirement. Baidu Netcom’s policy is to remove links to web pages which to its knowledge contain information that would be in violation of PRC laws or regulations. In addition, we monitor our websites to ensure our compliance with such laws and regulations. Regulations on Internet Privacy The PRC Constitution states that PRC law protects the freedom and privacy of communications of citizens and prohibits infringement of such rights. In recent years, PRC government authorities have enacted legislation on Internet use to protect personal information from any unauthorized disclosure. The Internet Measures prohibit an ICP operator from insulting or slandering a third party or infringing the lawful rights and interests of a third party. Pursuant to the BBS Measures, ICP operators that provide electronic messaging services must keep users’ personal information confidential and must not disclose such personal information to any third party without the users’ consent or unless required by law. The regulations further authorize the relevant telecommunications authorities to order ICP operators to rectify unauthorized disclosure. ICP operators are subject to legal liability if the unauthorized disclosure results in damages or losses to users. The PRC government, however, has the power and authority to order ICP operators to turn over personal information if an Internet user posts any prohibited content or engages in illegal activities on the Internet. Regulations on Foreign Exchange Foreign Currency Exchange Pursuant to the Foreign Currency Administration Rules promulgated in 1996 and amended in 1997 and 2008 and various regulations issued by SAFE and other relevant PRC government authorities, RMB is freely convertible to the extent of current account items, such as trade related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investment, unless expressly exempted by laws and regulations, still require prior approval from SAFE or its provincial branch for conversion of RMB into a foreign currency, such as U.S. dollars, and remittance of the foreign currency outside the PRC. Payments for transactions that take place within the PRC must be made in RMB. Unless otherwise approved or permitted, PRC companies must repatriate foreign currency payments received from abroad. The foreign exchange received by PRC companies, including foreign invested enterprises, may be retained in their foreign exchange accounts without being exchanged into RMB to the extent permitted by relevant laws and regulations. Dividend Distribution The principal laws and regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises and Sino-foreign equity joint ventures include: • Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended; • Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended; • Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law (1979), as amended; 51 Table of Contents • Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1983), as amended; • PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (2007); and • Implementation Rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (2007). Under these laws and regulations, wholly foreign owned enterprises and Sino-foreign equity joint ventures in the PRC may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, these foreign-invested enterprises are required to set aside certain amounts of their accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Foreign Exchange Registration of Offshore Investment by PRC Residents Pursuant to SAFE’s Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular No. 75, issued on October 21, 2005, and its implementation rules issued in May 2007, (i) a PRC resident, including a PRC resident natural person or a PRC company, is required to register with the local branch of SAFE before it establishes or controls an overseas SPV, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (ii) when a PRC resident contributes the assets of or its equity interests in a domestic enterprise into an SPV, or engages in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests into an SPV, such PRC resident shall register his or her interest in the SPV and the change thereof with the local branch of SAFE; and (iii) when the SPV undergoes a material event outside of China, such as change in share capital or merger and acquisition, the PRC resident must, within 30 days from the occurrence of such event, register such change with the local branch of SAFE. PRC residents who are shareholders of SPVs that were established and which have completed their inbound investment before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. Under Circular No. 75, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth above may result in penalties, including restrictions on a PRC subsidiary’s foreign exchange activities and its ability to distribute dividends to the SPV. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, and on January 5, 2007 SAFE further promulgated the implementation rules on those measures. Both became effective on February 1, 2007. According to the implementation rules, if individuals in the PRC participate in any employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company, those individuals must apply as a group through the company or a domestic agency to SAFE or the appropriate local branch for approval for any foreign exchange-related transactions concerning that plan. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company. Under this rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Regulations on Labor On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the Labor Law, the Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign labor contract with unlimited term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts. The employer has to compensate the employee upon the expiration of a fixed-term labor contract, unless the employee refuses to renew such contract on terms the same as or better than those contained in the expired contract. The employer also has to indemnify an employee if the employer terminates a labor contract without a cause permitted by law. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on 52 Table of Contents January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their regular salaries for each waived vacation day. Regulations on Taxation For a discussion of applicable PRC tax regulations, see “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Taxation.” Regulations in Japan Although current Japanese law and regulations contain no provisions expressly directed toward legal control of Internet search services such as those operated by our Japanese subsidiaries in Japan, certain existing Japanese law and regulations may nonetheless affect such services. The application to our Japanese subsidiaries of existing Japanese law and regulations relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, obscenity and other content regulation, user privacy and data protection, defamation, consumer protection and quality of services in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In all such cases, there is a possibility that providing, editing and processing by an Internet search service of links to web pages which contain material in violation of applicable Japanese law could result in civil or criminal legal liability on the part of such Internet search service. In addition to the foregoing, there is political and social support within Japan for the adoption of legislation expressly directed to the legal control of harmful information on the Internet. With this support, a law which aims to protect juveniles from harmful information on the Internet is being introduced, and it is difficult to predict how much impact such a law will have on the operation of our Internet search services in Japan. C. Organizational Structure The following is a list of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F: Name Time of Formation Place of Formation Relationship Baidu Online Network Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. January 2000 China Wholly owned subsidiary Baidu Holdings Limited February 2000 British Virgin Islands Wholly owned subsidiary Baidu Netcom Science Technology Co., Ltd. June 2001 China Consolidated affiliated entity Baidu (China) Co., Ltd. June 2005 China Wholly owned subsidiary Baidu.com Times Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. April 2006 China Wholly owned subsidiary Beijing Perusal Technology Co., Ltd. June 2006 China Consolidated affiliated entity Baidu, Inc. December 2006 Japan Wholly owned subsidiary Baidu (Hong Kong) Limited November 2007 Hong Kong Wholly owned subsidiary Beijing BaiduPay Science and Technology Co., Ltd. February 2008 China Consolidated affiliated entity Baido, Inc. April 2008 Japan Wholly owned subsidiary Hyakudo, Inc. April 2008 Japan Wholly owned subsidiary Baidu Interaction (Shenzhen) Network Technology Co., Ltd. February 2009 China Wholly owned subsidiary In addition to the subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities listed above, we also own a 49% equity interest in RakuBai Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong. Rakuten, Inc., the largest e-commerce website in Japan, owns the remaining 51% equity interest in RakuBai Limited. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in Internet and online advertising businesses. Accordingly, we operate our websites and our online advertising business in China through contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal, BaiduPay and their respective individual shareholders, which allow us to substantially control these entities. See “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions” for a summary of these contractual arrangements. 53 Table of Contents D. Property, Plant and Equipment In November 2009, we moved into Baidu Campus, our new corporate headquarters located in Shangdi, an area designated by the Beijing municipal government as the center of the city’s information technology industry. The new facility occupies 91,500 square meters of gross floor area and currently houses our principal executive offices, information and technology center, online marketing services center and administrative and support departments, and approximately 3,300 of our employees. We own the land use right to the land on which Baidu Campus was built. We have branch offices in Beijing, Shanghai and selected cities in Guangdong Province, where we lease premises from unrelated third parties. Our servers in China are hosted at the Internet data centers of China Telecom and China Unicom in Beijing, Tianjin, Jinan, Zhengzhou, Shijiazhuang, Foshan, Suzhou, Chengdu and Shenzhen. Our servers in Japan are hosted at the Internet data center of Computer Engineering & Consulting, Ltd. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this annual report on Form 20-F. This report contains forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Information.” In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information provided under the caption “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 20-F. We caution you that our businesses and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. A. Operating Results Overview Our operations are primarily based in China, where we derive almost all of our revenues. Total revenues in 2009 were RMB4.4 billion (US$651.6 million), a 39.1% increase over 2008. Operating profit in 2009 was RMB1.6 billion (US$235.1 million), a 46.3% increase over 2008. Net income in 2009 was RMB1.5 billion (US$217.6 million), a 41.7% increase over 2008. Our total assets as of December 31, 2009 were RMB6.2 billion (US$902.0 million), of which cash and cash equivalent amounted to RMB4.2 billion (US$615.3 million). Our total liabilities were RMB1.4 billion (US$205.7 million), accounting for 22.8% of total liabilities and shareholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2009, our retained earnings accumulated to RMB3.4 billion (US$504.0 million). The major factors affecting our results of operations and financial condition are discussed below. Revenues Revenue Generation We derive almost all of our revenues from online marketing services, which accounted for 99.8%, 99.9% and 99.9% of our total revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We provide online marketing services to our P4P customers and tailored solutions customers. A substantial majority of our revenues from online marketing services were derived from our P4P services. Our P4P platform is an online marketplace that introduces Internet search users to customers who bid or pay a fixed fee based on click-throughs for priority placement of their links in the search results. We recognize P4P revenues when a user clicks on a customer’s link in the search results, based on the amount that the customer has agreed to pay for each click-through or, in some cases, other pre-determined performance measures. We provide tailored solutions customers with marketing solutions which may include one or more forms of online advertising services such as text links and graphical advertisements, as well as P4P services. Our agreements with these customers generally have a term of no more than one year. Our tailored solutions customers generally pay 54 Table of Contents us based on pre-determined performance metrics, such as number of click-throughs, duration of placement, number of converted users and number of telephone calls. Some of our large tailored solutions customers have increasingly used our auction-based P4P services as one of the means to meet their online marketing needs. We expect to continue to experience such trend in the near future. The most significant factors that directly or indirectly affect our online marketing revenues are: • the number of our users and online marketing customers; • the number of searches initiated on our websites and our Baidu Union members’ properties; • the rate at which users click on paid search results; • the competitiveness of bidding for keywords by P4P customers; • the total online marketing budgets of our customers; and • the total number of sponsored links and advertisements displayed on our websites and the bidding price for click-through. Our P4P services revenues have primarily been driven by the increase in the number of page views, the increase in the number of P4P customers, and by our success in optimizing the display of sponsored links. We believe that an increase in the number of active P4P customers generally leads to an increase in the number of sponsored links and a higher average price per click-through for selected keywords. Our P4P customer growth has primarily been driven by the adoption of our P4P services by SMEs and, to a lesser extent, large enterprises. Our online advertising services have historically been driven by the general increase in our customers’ online marketing budgets. Most of our tailored solutions customers are medium and large enterprises. We expect the number of our online marketing customers to grow and, as a result, our customer mix may change. However, we expect our online marketing customer base to remain diverse for the foreseeable future. A prolonged economic slowdown in China may cause our customers to decrease or delay their online marketing spending, hamper our efforts to grow our customer base, or result in fewer clicks by our users on sponsored links or advertisements displayed on our or Baidu Union members’ websites. Any of these consequences could negatively affect our online marketing revenues. In April 2009, we officially launched Phoenix Nest, our new auction-based online marketing system designed to improve relevance in paid search and increase value for customers. In December 2009, we completed the switch from our previous online marketing system, the Online Marketing Classic Edition, to Phoenix Nest. If Phoenix Nest is perceived to be a less effective marketing tool than the Online Marketing Classic Edition, we may lose existing customers or encounter difficulty attracting new customers and, as a result, our future revenues could be materially and adversely affected. Our online marketing customers are increasingly seeking marketing solutions with measurable results in order to maximize their ROI. To meet our customers’ needs, we will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of our various products and services and adjust the mix of our service offerings to optimize our customers’ ROI. We expect that we will continue to earn a substantial majority of our revenues from our online marketing services. As a result, we plan to continue focusing most of our resources on expanding our online marketing services. Prior to July 2006, we had provided enterprise search software and related services. We decided to phase out our enterprise search software business in July 2006. This phase-out was completed in 2008. Revenue Collection We collect payments for our P4P services both from our customers directly and through our distributors. We have expanded our direct sales effort in several cities in China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Dongguan, and as a result, an increasing portion of P4P payments have been collected through our direct sales. We require our P4P distributors or direct customers to pay a deposit before using our P4P services, to maintain a minimum balance in their accounts, and to replenish the accounts immediately or in some cases, within certain grace periods after their account balance falls below the designated amount. We deduct the amount due to us from the deposit paid by a distributor or a customer when a user clicks on the customer’s link in the search results. 55 Table of Contents We offer payment terms to our tailored solutions customers and longer payment terms to certain qualified distributors, consistent with industry practice. As of December 31, 2009, we had accounts receivable of RMB161.6 million (US$23.7 million), net of allowance of RMB9.0 million (US$1.3 million), mainly due from tailored solutions customers. Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses consist of cost of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses, and research and development expenses. Share-based compensation expenses are allocated among the above three categories of operating costs and expenses, based on the nature of the work of the employees who have received share-based compensation. Costs and expenses related to our Japan operations, which started in December 2006, are included in our cost of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses. Our total operating costs and expenses increased significantly from 2007 to 2009 due to the growth of our business. Cost of Revenues The following table sets forth the components of our cost of revenues both in absolute amount and as a percentage of total revenues for the periods indicated. For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (In thousands, except percentages) Total revenues 1,744,425 100.0 3,198,252 100.0 4,447,776 651,603 100.0 Cost of revenues: Business tax and surcharges (108,783 ) 6.2 (200,085 ) 6.2 (275,924 ) (40,423 ) 6.2 Traffic acquisition costs (204,693 ) 11.7 (418,474 ) 13.1 (697,673 ) (102,210 ) 15.7 Bandwidth costs (117,554 ) 6.8 (178,651 ) 5.6 (203,927 ) (29,875 ) 4.6 Depreciation of servers and other equipment (147,115 ) 8.4 (225,799 ) 7.1 (250,969 ) (36,767 ) 5.6 Operational costs (65,544 ) 3.8 (127,906 ) 4.0 (181,369 ) (26,571 ) 4.1 Share-based compensation expenses (1,717 ) 0.1 (4,542 ) 0.1 (6,374 ) (934 ) 0.1 Total cost of revenues (645,406 ) 37.0 (1,155,457 ) 36.1 (1,616,236 ) (236,780 ) 36.3 Traffic Acquisition Costs. Traffic acquisition costs represent the portion of our online marketing revenues that we share with our Baidu Union members. We typically pay a Baidu Union member, based on a pre-agreed arrangement, a portion of the online marketing revenues generated from valid click-throughs by users of that member’s properties. Bandwidth Costs. Bandwidth costs are the fees we pay to telecommunications carriers such as China Telecom and China Unicom for telecommunications services and for hosting our servers at their Internet data centers. We expect our bandwidth costs, as variable costs, to increase with the traffic on our websites. Our bandwidth costs could also increase if the telecommunications carriers increase their service charges. Depreciation of Servers and Other Equipment. We include depreciation expenses within our cost of revenues for servers and other computer hardware that are directly related to our business operations and technical support. Operational Costs. Operational costs include primarily salary and benefit expenses and travel and other expenses incurred by our operating and technical support personnel. Salary and benefit expenses include wages, bonuses, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, pension benefits, employee housing fund and other welfare benefits. 56 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table sets forth the components of our operating expenses both in absolute amount and as a percentage of total revenues for the periods indicated. For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (In thousands, except percentages) Total revenues 1,744,425 100.0 3,198,252 100.0 4,447,776 651,603 100.0 Cost of revenues (645,406 ) 37.0 (1,155,457 ) 36.1 (1,616,236 ) (236,780 ) 36.3 Selling, general and administrative (411,163 ) 23.6 (659,804 ) 20.6 (803,988 ) (117,785 ) 18.1 Selling and marketing (275,283 ) 15.8 (452,245 ) 14.1 (573,088 ) (83,958 ) 12.9 General and administrative (135,880 ) 7.8 (207,559 ) 6.5 (230,900 ) (33,827 ) 5.2 Research and development (140,702 ) 8.1 (286,256 ) 9.0 (422,615 ) (61,913 ) 9.5 Total costs and operating expenses (1,197,271 ) 68.7 (2,101,517 ) 65.7 (2,842,839 ) (416,478 ) 63.9 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling and marketing expenses primarily consist of salaries and benefits and commissions for our sales and marketing personnel and promotional and marketing expenses. We expect to incur higher selling and marketing expenses as we intensify our brand-promotion efforts. To the extent that our direct sales force sells a greater proportion of our online marketing services, we expect that our selling expenses will increase as a result of increased sales commissions. Our general and administrative expenses primarily consist of salaries and benefits for our general and administrative personnel and fees and expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses primarily consist of salaries and benefits for research and development personnel. We expense research and development costs as they are incurred, except for capitalized software development costs that fulfill the capitalization criteria under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, subtopic 350-40, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other: Internal-Use Software (Pre-Codification: Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use). Share-based Compensation Expenses We grant options to our employees as a type of share-based compensation award. As of December 31, 2009, there was RMB36.5 million (US$5.3 million) unrecognized share-based compensation cost related to options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average vesting period of 2.6 years. To the extent the actual forfeiture rate is different from our original estimate, actual share-based compensation cost related to these awards may be different from our expectation. In addition to options, we started awarding restricted shares to employees in 2006. As of December 31, 2009, there was RMB53.8 million (US$7.9 million) unrecognized share-based compensation cost related to restricted shares, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average vesting period of 1.2 years. To the extent the actual forfeiture rate is different from our original estimate, actual share-based compensation cost related to these awards may be different from our expectation. 57 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the allocation of our share-based compensation expenses both in absolute amount and as a percentage of total share-based compensation expenses among our employees based on the nature of work which they were assigned to perform. For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (In thousands, except percentages) Allocation of Share-based Compensation Expenses Cost of revenues 1,717 4.3 4,542 5.4 6,374 934 7.4 Selling, general and administrative 17,371 43.6 41,651 49.6 38,681 5,667 44.8 Research and development 20,760 52.1 37,784 45.0 41,263 6,045 47.8 Total share-based compensation expenses 39,848 100.0 83,977 100.0 86,318 12,646 100.0 Depreciation Expenses of Baidu Campus Depreciation expenses of Baidu Campus are allocated into cost of revenues and operating expenses based on the function of the operating units benefiting from the use of the premises. With our recent move into Baidu Campus and the termination of certain prior leasing contracts, our leasing expenses are expected to decrease in the future. Taxation Under the current laws of the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands, we and our direct subsidiary Baidu Holdings Limited are not subject to income or capital gains tax. Under the current laws of Hong Kong, Baidu (Hong Kong) Limited is exempted from income tax on its foreign-derived income. Additionally, dividend payments made by any of these companies are not subject to withholding tax in those jurisdictions. PRC Enterprise Income Tax Pursuant to the applicable PRC tax laws and regulations effective before January 1, 2008, foreign-invested enterprises established in China were generally subject to a state and local enterprise income tax, or EIT, at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively. An enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” and located in a “national high-tech development zone” was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15%. In addition, an enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” located in the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and would enjoy an exemption from the EIT for the first three years of its establishment and, upon approval, a 50% reduction of the EIT for the succeeding three years. In 2006, Baidu Online obtained an “advanced technology enterprise” certificate from the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Commerce, which qualified Baidu Online for a 10% EIT rate from 2006 to 2007, followed by a 15% tax rate so long as it continued to qualify as a high and new technology enterprise. Baidu Times, which was a certified foreign-invested high and new technology enterprise located in Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park (part of the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone), was entitled to a three-year exemption from EIT from 2006 to 2008 and a 7.5% EIT rate for another three years from 2009 to 2011, followed by a 15% tax rate so long as it continued to qualify as a high and new technology enterprise. Baidu China was granted “software enterprise” status by the Shanghai Municipal Information Commission in 2006 and thus was entitled to a full exemption from EIT from 2006 to 2007 and a 50% tax reduction from 2008 to 2010. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Council issued the Implementation Rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementation Rules, which also became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice on Implementation of Enterprise Income Tax Transition Preferential Policy under the EIT Law, or the Transition Preferential Policy Circular, which became effective simultaneously with the EIT Law. 58 Table of Contents According to the EIT Law, as further clarified by the Implementation Rules and the Transition Preferential Policy Circular, foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. The EIT rate of enterprises established before March 16, 2007 that were eligible for preferential tax rate according to then effective tax laws and regulations will gradually transition to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2013. In addition, certain enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law if they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state,” subject to certain general factors described therein. Under the Notice on Several Preferential Policies in Respect of Enterprise Income Tax promulgated jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on February 22, 2008, or the Caishui No. 1 Notice, other than the preferential EIT treatments specified under the EIT Law, the Implementation Rules and certain other tax regulations, all preferential EIT treatments granted prior to January 1, 2008 are eliminated. On April 24, 2009, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly promulgated Caishui Circular 69. According to Caishui Circular 69, subject to verification, a qualified software enterprise established prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the tax holidays previously granted to it as a “software enterprise.” Where the software enterprise had already started to enjoy its tax holidays before 2008, it may continue to enjoy the remaining tax holidays from 2008 until the expiration of such tax holidays. Therefore, Baidu China may continue to enjoy a 50% reduced EIT rate from 2008 to 2010 as a “software enterprise.” On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Administrative Measures on the Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises, or the Recognition Rules, effective on January 1, 2008. According to the Recognition Rules, the provincial counterparts of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation shall jointly determine whether an enterprise is qualified as a high and new technology enterprise under the EIT Law. In making such determination, these government agencies shall consider, among other factors, ownership of core technology, whether the products or services fall within the scope of high and new technology strongly supported by the state as specified in the Recognition Rules, the ratios of technical personnel and research and development (R&D) personnel to total personnel, the ratio of R&D expenditures to annual sales revenues, the ratio of revenues attributed to high and new technology products or services to total revenues, and other measures set forth in relevant guidance. In December 2008, our PRC subsidiaries Baidu Online and Baidu Times were designated by relevant government authorities as “high and new technology enterprise” under the EIT Law. In February 2009, Baidu Online and Baidu Times received the high and new technology enterprise certificates jointly issued by the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission, the Beijing Finance Bureau, and the Beijing State and Local Tax Bureaus. Therefore, Baidu Online and Baidu Times are entitled to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification as “high and new technology enterprises” under the EIT Law. In addition, Baidu Times will continue to benefit from the remaining tax holidays granted to it under the applicable PRC tax laws and regulations effective before January 1, 2008. If Baidu Online or Baidu Times fails to maintain the “high and new technology enterprise” qualification under the EIT Law, or if Baidu China fails to maintain the qualification as a “software enterprise”, their tax rates will be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, dividends, interests, rent or royalties payable by a foreign-invested enterprise, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors, and proceeds from the disposition of assets (after deducting the net value of such assets) by such foreign enterprise investor, shall be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless such foreign enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding. The Caishui No. 1 Notice issued on February 22, 2008 further clarifies that undistributed profits earned by foreign-invested enterprises prior to January 1, 2008 will be exempted from any withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where Baidu Holdings Limited, the sole shareholder of our PRC subsidiary Baidu Online, was incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Baidu (Hong Kong) Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary and the sole shareholder of our PRC subsidiaries Baidu China and Baidu Times, was incorporated in Hong Kong, which has a tax treaty with China that provides for a lower withholding tax rate of 5%. However, the 59 Table of Contents State Administration of Taxation promulgated Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Conventions on October 27, 2009, or SAT Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” with respect to dividend, interest and royalty income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to SAT Circular 601, a beneficial owner shall have ownership and right to dispose of the income or the rights and properties giving rise to such income. A beneficial owner generally engages in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up primarily for the purpose of evading or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Our PRC subsidiaries historically have not paid dividends to us. If they declare and distribute dividends to us in the future, such dividend payments will be subject to withholding tax, which will increase our tax liability and reduce the amount of cash available to our company. Under the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income payable to the tax authority where such “de facto management bodies” locate. The Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. SAT Circular 82 provides that an overseas registered enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function are mainly located in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies located in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) no less than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. Although SAT Circular 82 only applies to overseas registered enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners, the determining criteria set forth in the circular may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, individuals or foreigners. If we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, we may be subject to the EIT at 25% on our global income, except that the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from the EIT to the extent such dividends are deemed “dividends among qualified resident enterprises.” If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% EIT on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. The EIT Law and the Implementation Rules have made an effort to scrutinize transactions between related parties. Pursuant to the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, the tax authorities may impose mandatory adjustment on tax due to the extent a related party transaction is not in line with arm’s-length principle or was entered into with a purpose to reduce, exempt or delay the payment of tax. On January 8, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Implementation Measures for Special Tax Adjustments (Trial). The measures set forth tax-filing disclosure and documentation requirements, clarify the definition of “related party”, guide the selection and application of transfer pricing methods, and outline the due process procedures for transfer pricing investigation and assessment. If our PRC subsidiaries no longer qualify for preferential tax treatment, we will consider available options under applicable law that would enable us to qualify for further preferential tax treatment. To the extent we are unable to offset the impact of the expiration of our PRC subsidiaries’ preferential tax treatment with new tax exemptions, tax incentives or other tax benefits, the expiration of their preferential tax treatment may cause our effective tax rate to increase. The amount of income tax payable by our PRC subsidiaries in the future will depend on various factors, including, among other things, the results of operations and taxable income of, and the statutory 60 Table of Contents tax rate applicable to, each of the subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate depends partially on the extent of the relative contribution of each of our subsidiaries to our consolidated taxable income. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our consolidated effective tax rate was -2.1%, 9.97% and 11.76%, respectively. If P4P were classified as a form of advertising in the future, we may have to conduct our P4P business through Baidu Netcom in order to comply with PRC laws and regulations that limit foreign ownership of online advertising companies. As a result, our consolidated effective tax rate would increase, as Baidu Netcom is subject to a 25% statutory enterprise income tax rate as of the date of this annual report. PRC Business Tax Revenues from our P4P services are subject to a 5% PRC business tax. Revenues from our online advertising services are subject to business taxes, surcharges and cultural business construction fees totaling approximately 8.5% of the online advertising revenues. Revenues from our other services are also subject to a 5% business tax. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated. Our business has evolved rapidly since we commenced operations in 2000. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict future operating results. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of operating results should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 RMB RMB RMB US$ (In thousands) Consolidated Statements of Income Data Revenues: Online marketing services 1,741,021 3,194,461 4,445,310 651,242 Other services 3,404 3,791 2,466 361 Total revenues 1,744,425 3,198,252 4,447,776 651,603 Operating costs and expenses(1) : Cost of revenues (645,406 ) (1,155,457 ) (1,616,236 ) (236,780 ) Selling, general and administrative (411,163 ) (659,804 ) (803,988 ) (117,785 ) Research and development (140,702 ) (286,256 ) (422,615 ) (61,913 ) Total operating costs and expenses (1,197,271 ) (2,101,517 ) (2,842,839 ) (416,478 ) Operating profit 547,154 1,096,735 1,604,937 235,125 Interest income 49,009 47,677 32,661 4,785 Other income, net, including exchange gains or losses 20,053 19,767 45,752 6,703 Loss from equity method investments — — (229 ) (34 ) Taxation 12,752 (116,071 ) (198,017 ) (29,010 ) Net income 628,968 1,048,108 1,485,104 217,569 (1) Share-based compensation expenses are allocated as follows: Cost of revenues (1,717 ) (4,542 ) (6,374 ) (934 ) Selling, general and administrative (17,371 ) (41,651 ) (38,681 ) (5,667 ) Research and development (20,760 ) (37,784 ) (41,263 ) (6,045 ) (39,848 ) (83,977 ) (86,318 ) (12,646 ) 61 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Revenues. Our total revenues increased by 39.1% from RMB3.2 billion in 2008 to RMB4.4 billion (US$651.6 million) in 2009. This increase was primarily due to a substantial increase in our revenues from online marketing services. Our online marketing revenues increased by 39.2% from RMB3.2 billion in 2008 to RMB4.4 billion (US$651.2 million) in 2009. This increase was mainly attributable to the increase in the number of our online marketing customers from approximately 284,000 in 2008 to over 317,000 in 2009, and the increase in the average revenue per customer from approximately RMB11,200 in 2008 to approximately RMB14,000 (US$2,054) in 2009. The increase in our online marketing customers was mainly due to our effective distribution network and our expanded direct sales, especially in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Dongguan. The increase in the average revenue per customer was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of paid clicks, and the higher price per click as more customers participated in our P4P auction platform. The number of paid clicks increased by approximately 16.9% from 2008 to 2009. Operating Costs and Expenses. Our total operating costs and expenses increased by 35.3% from RMB2.1 billion in 2008 to RMB2.8 billion (US$416.5 million) in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the expansion of our business. • Cost of Revenues. Our cost of revenues increased by 39.9% from RMB1.2 billion in 2008 to RMB1.6 billion (US$236.8 million) in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the following factors: • Traffic Acquisition Costs. Our traffic acquisition costs increased by 66.7% from RMB418.5 million in 2008 to RMB697.7 million (US$102.2 million) in 2009. This was primarily due to the growth of revenue contribution from our Baidu Union members; • Bandwidth Costs and Depreciation Expenses. Our bandwidth costs increased by 14.1% from RMB178.7 million in 2008 to RMB203.9 million (US$29.9 million) in 2009. Our depreciation expenses of servers and other equipment increased by 11.1% from RMB225.8 million in 2008 to RMB251.0 million (US$36.8 million) in 2009. The absolute increases in these costs were due to the expansion of our business. However, these costs in 2009 accounted for a lower percentage of total revenues than in 2008. The decreases in bandwidth costs and depreciation expenses as percentages of total revenues reflect our improved efficiency as well as the scalability of our Internet-based business model; • Business Tax and Surcharges. Our business tax and surcharges increased by 37.9% from RMB200.1 million in 2008 to RMB275.9 million (US$40.4 million) in 2009, primarily as a result of increase in our online marketing revenues; and • Operational Costs. Our operational costs increased by 41.8% from RMB127.9 million in 2008 to RMB181.4 million (US$26.6 million) in 2009, primarily due to the increase in the number and compensation levels of our operating and technical support employees to meet the needs of our growing operations. • Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 21.9% from RMB659.8 million in 2008 to RMB804.0 million (US$117.8 million) in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the following factors: • total salaries and benefits and staff-related expenses increased by 13.1% from RMB353.8 million in 2008 to RMB400.3 million (US$58.6 million) in 2009, primarily due to the increased direct sales headcount to support our expanded online marketing services; • total office operating expenses increased by 10.8% from RMB77.2 million in 2008 to RMB85.5 million (US$12.5 million) in 2009, primarily as a result of increase and expansion of our direct sales offices; • total traveling, communication and business development expenses increased by 28.9% from RMB23.9 million in 2008 to RMB30.8 million (US$4.5 million) in 2009, primarily due to the increased direct sales headcount and activities to support our expanded online marketing services; and • marketing and promotion expenses increased by 75.3% from RMB90.7 million in 2008 to RMB159.0 million (US$23.3 million) in 2009 primarily due to the increased marketing and promotion activities. 62 Table of Contents The above increases were partially offset by a 7.2% decrease in share-based compensation expenses allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses from RMB41.7 million in 2008 to RMB38.7 million (US$5.7 million) in 2009, primarily due to the maturity of some share-based awards granted in prior years. • Research and Development Expenses. Our research and development expenses increased by 47.6% from RMB286.3 million in 2008 to RMB422.6 million (US$61.9 million) in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the number and compensation levels of research and development staff. Operating Profit. As a result of the foregoing, we generated an operating profit of RMB1.6 billion (US$235.1 million) in 2009, a 46.3% increase from 2008. Taxation. Our income tax expenses increased by 70.6% from RMB116.1 million in 2008 to RMB198.0 million (US$29.0 million) in 2009, primarily due to the expiration of tax holiday of our subsidiary Baidu Times. Other income, net, including exchange gains or losses. Our other income, net, including exchange gains or losses was RMB45.8 million (US$6.7 million) in 2009, compared to RMB19.8 million in 2008. The increase was primarily due to more government subsidies received in 2009. Net Income. As a result of the foregoing, we had net income of RMB1.5 billion (US$217.6 million) in 2009, a 41.7% increase from RMB1.0 billion in 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Revenues. Our total revenues increased by 83.3% from RMB1.7 billion in 2007 to RMB3.2 billion in 2008. This increase was primarily due to a substantial increase in our revenues from online marketing services. Our online marketing revenues increased by 83.5% from RMB1.7 billion in 2007 to RMB3.2 billion in 2008. This increase was mainly attributable to the increase in the number of our online marketing customers from approximately 214,000 in 2007 to over 284,000 in 2008, and the increase in the average revenue per customer from approximately RMB8,100 in 2007 to approximately RMB11,200 in 2008. The increase in our online marketing customers was mainly due to our effective distribution network and our expanded direct sales, especially in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Dongguan. The increase in the average revenue per customer was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of paid clicks, and the higher price per click as more customers participated in our P4P auction platform. The number of paid clicks increased by approximately 48% from 2007 to 2008. Operating Costs and Expenses. Our total operating costs and expenses increased by 75.5% from RMB1.2 billion in 2007 to RMB2.1 billion in 2008. This increase was primarily due to the expansion of our business. • Cost of Revenues. Our cost of revenues increased by 79.0% from RMB645.4 million in 2007 to RMB1.2 billion in 2008. This increase was primarily due to the following factors: • Traffic Acquisition Costs. Our traffic acquisition costs increased by 104.4% from RMB204.7 million in 2007 to RMB418.5 million in 2008. This was primarily due to the growth of revenue contribution from our Baidu Union members; • Bandwidth Costs and Depreciation Expenses. Our bandwidth costs increased by 52.0% from RMB117.6 million in 2007 to RMB178.7 million in 2008. Our depreciation expenses of servers and other computer hardware increased by 53.5% from RMB147.1 million in 2007 to RMB225.8 million in 2008. The absolute increases in these costs were due to the expansion of our business. However, these costs in 2008 accounted for a lower percentage of total revenues than in 2007. The decreases in bandwidth costs and depreciation expenses as percentages of total revenues reflect our improved efficiency as well as the scalability of our Internet-based business model; • Business Tax and Surcharges. Our business tax and surcharges increased by 83.9% from RMB108.8 million in 2007 to RMB200.1 million in 2008, primarily as a result of increase in our online marketing revenues; and • Operational Costs. Our operational costs increased by 95.1% from RMB65.5 million in 2007 to RMB127.9 million in 2008, primarily due to the increase in the number and compensation levels of our operating and technical support employees to meet the needs of our growing operations. 63 Table of Contents • Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 60.5% from RMB411.2 million in 2007 to RMB659.8 million in 2008. This increase was primarily due to the following factors: • total salaries and benefits and staff-related expenses increased by 61.8% from RMB218.7 million in 2007 to RMB353.8 million in 2008, primarily due to the increased direct sales and administrative headcount to support our expanded online marketing services; • share-based compensation expenses allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 139.8% from RMB17.4 million in 2007 to RMB41.7 million in 2008 primarily due to share-based awards granted to the new senior management personnel hired in 2008; • total office operating expenses increased by 37.6% from RMB56.1 million in 2007 to RMB77.2 million in 2008, as a result of increase and expansion of our direct sales offices; and • total traveling, communication and business development expenses increased by 46.6% from RMB16.3 million in 2007 to RMB23.9 million in 2008, primarily due to the increased administrative and direct sales headcount and activities to support our expanded online marketing services. • Research and Development Expenses. Our research and development expenses increased by 103.4% from RMB140.7 million in 2007 to RMB286.3 million in 2008, primarily due to an increase in the number and compensation levels of research and development staff. Operating Profit. As a result of the foregoing, we generated an operating profit of RMB1.1 billion in 2008, a 100.4% increase from 2007. Taxation. Our income tax expenses were RMB116.1 million in 2008, compared to an income tax benefit of RMB12.8 million in 2007. The income tax expenses in 2008 were primarily due to one of our PRC subsidiaries being subject to an EIT rate of 12.5% in 2008, after the expiration of its full exemption from the EIT. Our income tax benefit in 2007 was primarily due to receipt of an incentive tax refund of RMB21.2 million arising from capital reinvestment in one of our PRC subsidiaries. Other income, net, including exchange gains or losses. Our other income, net, including exchange gains or losses was RMB19.8 million in 2008, compared to RMB20.1 million in 2007. Net Income. As a result of the foregoing, we had net income of RMB1.0 billion in 2008, a 66.6% increase from RMB629.0 million in 2007. Inflation Inflation in China has not materially impacted our results of operations. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the change of consumer price index in China was 4.8%, 5.9% and -0.7% in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Although we were not materially affected by inflation in the past, we can provide no assurance that we will not be affected in the future by potentially higher rates of inflation in China. For example, certain operating costs and expenses, such as employee compensation and office operating expenses may increase as a result of higher inflation. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our assets consists of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, high inflation could significantly reduce the value and purchasing power of these assets. We are not able to hedge our exposure to higher inflation in China. Foreign Currency The average exchange rate between U.S. dollar and RMB has declined from RMB8.2264 per U.S. dollar in July 2005 to RMB6.8275 per U.S. dollar in December 2009. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in Japan is the Japanese yen, and their reporting currency is RMB. During 2009, the Japanese yen depreciated by approximately 2.4% against RMB. As of December 31, 2009, we recorded RMB113.5 million (US$16.6 million) of net foreign currency translation loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a component of shareholders’ equity. We have not hedged exposures to exchange fluctuations using any hedging instruments. See also “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Fluctuation in the value of the RMB 64 Table of Contents may have a material adverse effect on your investment.” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” Critical Accounting Policies We prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities and the disclosure of our contingent assets and liabilities at the end of each fiscal period and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each fiscal period. We continually evaluate these judgments and estimates based on our own historical experience, knowledge and assessment of current business and other conditions, our expectations regarding the future based on available information and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, which together form our basis for making judgments about matters that are not readily apparent from other sources. Since the use of estimates is an integral component of the financial reporting process, our actual results could differ from those estimates. Some of our accounting policies require a higher degree of judgment than others in their application. The selection of critical accounting policies, the judgments and other uncertainties affecting application of those policies and the sensitivity of reported results to changes in conditions and assumptions are factors that should be considered when reviewing our financial statements. For further information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. We believe the following accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues based on the following principles: Online Marketing Services (1) Auction-based P4P Services Our auction-based P4P platform enables a customer to place its website link and related description on our search result list. The customers make bids on keywords based on how much they are willing to pay for each click to their listings in the search results listed on our website and the relevance between the keywords and the customers’ businesses. Internet users’ search of the keyword will trigger the display of the listings. The ranking of the customers’ listings depends on both the bidding price and the listings’ relevance to the keyword searched. The customer pays us only when a user clicks on one of its website links. Revenue is recognized when a user clicks on one of the customer-sponsored website links, as there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured, as prescribed by ASC subtopic 605-10, or ASC 605-10, Revenue Recognition: Overall (Pre-Codification: Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104). For certain P4P customers engaged through direct sales, we may provide certain value-added consultative services to help our customers better utilize its P4P online marketing system. Fees for such services are recognized as revenue on a pro-rata basis over the contracted service period. (2) Other Performance-based Online Marketing Services To the extent we provide online marketing services based on performance criteria other than click-throughs, such as the number of telephone calls brought to our customers, the number of users registered with our customers, or the minimum number of click-throughs, revenue is recognized when the specified performance criteria are met together with satisfaction of other applicable revenue recognition criteria as prescribed by ASC 605-10. (3) Time-based Online Advertising Services For time-based online advertising services such as text links, banners or other forms of graphical advertisements, we recognize revenue, in accordance with ASC 605-10, on a pro-rata basis over the contractual term commencing on the date the customer’s advertisement is displayed on a specified web page. For certain time-based contractual agreements, we may also provide certain performance guarantees, in which cases revenue is recognized at the later of the completion of the time commitment or performance guarantee. 65 Table of Contents (4) Online Marketing Services Involving Baidu Union Baidu Union is the program through which we expand distribution of our customers’ sponsored links or advertisements by leveraging traffic of the Baidu Union members’ Internet properties. We make payments to Baidu Union members for acquisition of traffic. We recognize gross revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our customers. Payments made to Baidu Union members are included in cost of revenues as traffic acquisition costs. (5) Barter Transactions We may engage in barter transactions from time to time and in such situations follow the provisions of ASC subtopic 845-10, Nonmonetary Transactions: Overall (Pre-Codification: Accounting Principles Board No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions). While nonmonetary transactions are generally recorded at fair value, if such value is not determinable within reasonable limits, we recognize the transaction based on the carrying value of the product or services we provide. The amount of revenues recognized for barter transactions was insignificant for each of the periods presented. We recognized revenues for barter transactions involving advertising in accordance with ASC subtopic 605-20, Revenue recognition: Services (Pre-Codification: Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 99-17, Accounting for Advertising Barter Transactions). However, neither the amount recognized nor the volume of such transactions qualified for income recognition was material for any of the periods presented. According to ASC subtopic 505-50, Equity: Equity-based Payments to Non-Employees (Pre-Codification: EITF 00-8, Accounting by a Grantee for an Equity Instrument to Be Received in Conjunction with Providing Goods or Services), if we provide services in exchange for equity instruments, we are required to measure the fair value of those equity instruments for revenue recognition purposes as of the earlier of either of the following dates: • The date the parties come to a mutual understanding of the terms of the equity-based compensation arrangement and a commitment for performance by us to earn the equity instruments is reached; or • The date at which our performance necessary to earn the equity instruments is completed. If as of the measurement date, the fair value of the equity instruments received is not determinable within reasonable limits, the transaction is recognized based on the fair value of the services provided. If the fair value of both the equity instruments received and the services provided cannot be determined, no revenue is to be recognized for the services provided and the equity instrument received is to be recorded at zero carrying value. The amount of revenues recognized for such transactions was not material for any of the years presented. (6) Other Revenue Recognition Related Policies If a sales contract stipulates more than one of the services described in (1), (2) and (3) above, and the services are considered as multiple accounting units in accordance with ASC subtopic 605-25, or ASC 605-25, Revenue recognition: Multiple-Element Arrangements (Pre-Codification: EITF 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables), the total revenue on such arrangements is allocated to the individual deliverables based on their relative fair values. If sufficient vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value does not exist for the allocation of revenue, the fee for the entire arrangement is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. We engage third party distributors to deliver some of our online marketing services to end customers. In this context, we may provide cash incentives to distributors. The cash incentives are accounted for as a reduction of revenue in accordance with ASC subtopic 605-50, Revenue recognition: Customer Payments and Incentives (Pre-Codification: EITF 01-9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products)). Cash received in advance from customers is recorded as customer deposits. The unused cash balances remaining in customers’ accounts are included as a liability of our company. Deferred revenue is recorded when the services are provided before the applicable revenue recognition criteria set forth in ASC 605-10 are fulfilled. 66 Table of Contents Share-based Compensation We account for share-based compensation in accordance with ASC subtopic 718-10, or ASC 718-10, Compensation-Stock Compensation: Overall (Pre-Codification: Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share-Based Payment). Under the provisions of ASC 718-10, share-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the award’s fair value as calculated by the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) option-pricing model and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. The BSM model requires various highly judgmental assumptions including volatility and expected option life. Volatility is measured using historical daily price changes of our ADSs over the respective expected life of the option. Expected option life is the number of years that we estimate, based on the vesting and contractual terms and employee demographics. If any of the assumptions used in the BSM model change significantly, share-based compensation expenses may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience. Further, to the extent our actual forfeiture rate is different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the PRC and Japan. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. ASC subtopic 740-10, or ASC 740-10, Income Taxes: Overall (Pre-Codification: Financial Accounting Standard Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109), contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with ASC 740-10 (Pre-Codification: SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates in the recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. These judgments, assumptions and estimates take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly impact the amounts of unrecognized, uncertain tax positions, if any, provided or to be provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. In general, PRC and Japanese tax authorities have up to five and seven years, respectively, to conduct examination on our tax filings. Accordingly, our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliated entities’ tax filings for the tax years 2006 to 2009 and our Japanese subsidiary’s tax filings for the tax years 2006 to 2009 remain open to examination by the respective taxing jurisdictions. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and category of future taxable income, such as income from operations. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and category of income in future years could render our current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause our actual income tax obligations to differ from our estimates, and thus materially impact our financial position and results of operations. We do not believe that net deferred tax assets related with our Japan and Hong Kong operations are more likely than not to be realized. Consequently, we have provided full valuation allowances on the related net deferred tax assets. 67 Table of Contents Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable are recognized and carried at original invoiced amount less an allowance for any potential uncollectible amounts. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off as incurred. We generally do not require collateral from our customers. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of customers to make payments on time. We review the accounts receivable on a periodic basis and make general and specific allowances when there is doubt as to the collectibility of individual balances. In evaluating the collectibility of individual receivable balances, we consider many factors, including the age of the balance, the customer’s past payment history, its current credit-worthiness and current economic trends. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, or if the operators decide not to pay us, additional allowances may be required which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We evaluate long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and purchased or internally developed intangible assets with finite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC subtopic 360-10, Property, Plant and Equipment: Overall (Pre-Codification: SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets). We assess the recoverability of an asset group based on the undiscounted future cash flows the asset group is expected to generate and recognize an impairment loss when the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset group plus net proceeds expected from the disposition of the asset group, if any, are less than the carrying value of the asset group. If we identify an impairment, we reduce the carrying amount of the asset group to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow approach or, when available and appropriate, to comparable market values. We use estimates and judgments in our impairment tests and if different estimates or judgments had been utilized, the timing or the amount of any impairment charges could be different. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets with Indefinite Life We assess goodwill and non-amortized intangible assets for impairment in accordance with ASC subtopic 350-20, or ASC 350-20, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other: Goodwill (Pre-Codification: SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets), which requires that goodwill and non-amortized intangible assets be tested for impairment at the “reporting unit level” at least annually and more frequently upon the occurrence of certain events, as defined by ASC 350-20. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized. In accordance with this policy, one of the domain name assets, which was acquired in July 2006, and the “Baidu” trademark are not subject to amortization, as the remaining useful life is indefinite. Based on our business activities and operational management perspective, we have determined that there is only one reporting unit. Goodwill and non-amortized intangible assets were tested for impairment in the annual impairment tests on December 31 in each of the years 2007, 2008, and 2009 using the two-step process required by ASC 350-20. First, we reviewed the carrying amount of the reporting unit compared to the “fair value” of the reporting unit based on quoted market prices of our ordinary shares. If such comparison reflected potential impairment, we would then prepare the discounted cash flow analyses. Such analyses are based on cash flow assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates being used to manage the business. Cash flow assumptions include estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for the reporting unit. An excess of the carrying value of the goodwill over the fair value of the goodwill would indicate that the goodwill may be impaired. Finally, if we determined that goodwill may be impaired, the “implied fair value” of the goodwill, as defined by ASC 350-20, would be compared to its carrying amount to determine the impairment loss, if any. There has been no impairment of goodwill in any of the years presented. 68 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements. ASU 2009-13 amends ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition: Multiple-Element Arrangements, regarding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. These updates addresses how to determine whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting, and how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting. These updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2010 and may be applied retrospectively or prospectively for new or materially modified arrangements. In addition, early adoption is permitted. We do not expect that the adoption of ASU 2009-13 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-14, Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. ASU 2009-14 amends the scope of ASC sub-topic 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition, to exclude all tangible products containing both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and shall be applied on a prospective basis. Early application is permitted as of the beginning of an entity’s fiscal year. We do not expect that the adoption of ASU 2009-14 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standard Board, or FASB, issued SFAS 167 (subsequently codified as ASU No. 2009-17), Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), which amends guidance regarding consolidation of variable interest entities to address the elimination of the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. ASU 2009-17 also replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity, and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Additionally, ASU 2009-17 requires any enterprise that holds a variable interest in a variable interest entity to provide enhanced disclosures that will provide users of financial statements with more transparent information about an enterprise’s involvement in a variable interest entity. ASU 2009-17 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after November 30, 2009. ASU 2009-17 may be applied retrospectively in previously issued financial statements for one or more years with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first year restated. We do not expect that the adoption of ASU 2009-17 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures: Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. ASU 2010-06 amends ASC 820 to require a number of additional disclosures regarding (1) the different classes of assets and liabilities measured at fair value, (2) the valuation techniques and inputs used, (3) the activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, and (4) the transfers between Levels 1, 2, and 3. The new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. Those disclosures are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect that the adoption of ASU 2010-06 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which comprise primarily of fixed rate investments maturing within one year, as well as the cash flow generated from our operations. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including our cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash due to changing business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our existing cash is insufficient to meet our requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, debt securities or borrow from banks. 69 Table of Contents Cash Flows and Working Capital The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 RMB RMB RMB US$ (In thousands) Net cash generated from operating activities 935,152 1,746,199 2,279,435 333,939 Net cash used in investing activities (713,216 ) (661,102 ) (536,069 ) (78,535 ) Net cash generated from (used in) financing activities 40,698 (35,637 ) 95,093 13,931 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (48,308 ) (37,889 ) (741 ) (108 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 214,326 1,011,571 1,837,718 269,227 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 1,136,274 1,350,600 2,362,171 346,060 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 1,350,600 2,362,171 4,199,889 615,287 Operating Activities Net cash generated from operating activities increased to RMB2.3 billion (US$333.9 million) in 2009 from RMB1.7 billion in 2008. This increase was mainly attributable to several factors, including (i) the substantial increase in net income to RMB1.5 billion (US$217.6 million) in 2009 compared to net income of RMB1.0 billion in 2008; (ii) the increase in add-back of non-cash expenses, mainly consisting of share-based compensation and depreciation expenses; and (iii) the increases in customer advance, deferred revenues and accounts payable. Net cash generated from operating activities increased to RMB1.7 billion in 2008 from RMB935.2 million in 2007. This increase was mainly attributable to several factors, including (i) the substantial increase in net income to RMB1.0 billion in 2008 compared to net income of RMB629.0 million in 2007; (ii) the increase in add-back of non-cash expenses, mainly consisting of share-based compensation and depreciation expenses; (iii) the increase in customer advances and deposits resulting from the increased number of P4P customers; and (iv) the increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by an increase of RMB47.8 million in other non-current assets primarily due to deposits for new offices we rent. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased from RMB661.1 million in 2008 to RMB536.1 million (US$78.5 million) in 2009, primarily due to less spending on acquisition of fixed assets and construction of Baidu Campus. Net cash used in investing activities decreased from RMB713.2 million in 2007 to RMB661.1 million in 2008, primarily due to less spending on acquisition of fixed assets and no further spending on land use right for our new corporate headquarters in 2008. Financing Activities Net cash flow generated from financing activities was RMB95.1 million (US$13.9 million) in 2009, compared to a net cash flow of RMB35.6 million used in financing activities in 2008, primarily due to the receipt of cash payments previously made by us, plus pre-determined premiums, in two structured share repurchase transactions in 2009. Net cash outflow in financing activities was RMB35.6 million in 2008, compared to a net cash inflow of RMB40.7 million from financing activities in 2007, primarily due to an upfront cash payment of US$10 million made under a structured share repurchase transaction entered into in December 2008, partially offset by the proceeds received from exercise of our share options in 2008. 70 Table of Contents We are a holding company with no operations of our own. We conduct our operations in China primarily through our indirect wholly owned subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities in China. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and to finance any debt we may incur depends upon dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries and license and service fees paid by our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing such debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends to us. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries are permitted to pay dividends to us only out of their retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit each year to fund a statutory reserve fund until the amount of the reserve fund reaches 50% of such entity’s registered capital. Although these statutory reserve funds can be used, among other ways, to increase the registered capital and eliminate future losses in excess of retained earnings of the respective companies, these reserve funds are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of a solvent liquidation of the companies. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Capital Expenditures We made capital expenditures of RMB569.1 million, RMB417.9 million and RMB399.3 million (US$58.5 million) in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, representing 32.6%, 13.1% and 9.0% of our total revenues, respectively. In January 2010, we entered into an agreement with Rakuten, Inc., the largest e-commerce website in Japan, to form a joint venture to build a business-to-business-to-consumer (B2B2C) online shopping mall for Chinese Internet users. Under the agreement, we will invest RMB64.5 million into the joint venture in 2010. Our capital expenditures were used primarily to purchase servers, network equipment and other computer hardware for our business, the acquisition of the land use right and the construction for our new corporate headquarters, Baidu Campus. We funded our capital expenditures primarily with net cash flow from operating activities. In late 2005, we entered into an agreement to acquire the land use right in Beijing to build our new corporate headquarters. We made a total payment of RMB97.6 million for the land use right. The construction and renovation of our new corporate headquarters were completed in 2009, and we moved into the new building in November 2009. Our capital expenditures in connection with the construction of our new office building were RMB102.1 million in 2007, RMB172.3 million in 2008 and RMB209.2 million (US$30.6 million) in 2009, excluding the above-mentioned payment for land use right. Our capital expenditures may increase substantially in the near term as our business continues to grow and as we expand and improve our network infrastructure. C. Research and Development We have a team of experienced engineers who are mostly based at our headquarters in Beijing. We recruit most of our engineers locally and have established various recruiting and training programs with leading universities in China. We have also recruited experienced engineers from overseas. We compete aggressively for engineering talent to help us address challenges such as Chinese language processing, information retrieval and high performance computing. In each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, our research and development expenditures, including share-based compensation expenses for research and development staff, were RMB140.7 million, RMB286.3 million and RMB422.6 million (US$61.9 million), representing 8.1%, 9.0% and 9.5% of our total revenues for 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. D. Trend Information Other than as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we are not aware of any trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events for the year ended December 31, 2009 that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our net revenues, income, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that would cause the disclosed financial information to be not necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial conditions. E. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any financial guarantees or other commitments to guarantee the payment obligations of any third parties. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet derivative instruments. Furthermore, we do not 71 Table of Contents have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to such entity. We do not have any variable interest in any unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit support to us or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with us. F. Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by specified categories as of December 31, 2009: Payment Due by Period Less Than More Than Total 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years 5 Years (In RMB thousands) Operating lease obligations(1) 256,640 216,606 26,318 13,716 — Capital commitments(2) 40,294 40,294 — — — Total 296,934 256,900 26,318 13,716 — (1) Operating lease obligations represent the lease obligations for our premises and bandwidth obligations. (2) Capital commitments relate primarily to expenditures in connection with Baidu Campus. Other than the contractual obligations set forth above and a contingent consideration of RMB4.2 million that may be paid pursuant to a business acquisition, we do not have any contractual obligations that are long-term debt obligations, capital (finance) lease obligations, purchase obligations or other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and Senior Management The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers and directors as of the date of this annual report. Directors and Executive Officers Age Position/Title Robin Yanhong Li 41 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jennifer Li 42 Chief Financial Officer William I. Chang 46 Chief Scientist William Decker 63 Independent Director James Ding 45 Independent Director Nobuyuki Idei 72 Independent Director Greg Penner 40 Independent Director Robin Yanhong Li is a co-founder of our company. Mr. Li has served as our chairman of the board since our inception in January 2000 and as our chief executive officer since January 2004. Mr. Li served as our president from February 2000 to December 2003. Prior to founding our company, Mr. Li worked as a staff engineer for Infoseek, a pioneer in the Internet search engine industry, from July 1997 to December 1999. Mr. Li was a senior consultant for IDD Information Services from May 1994 to June 1997. Mr. Li currently serves as an independent director, chairman of the compensation committee and member of the audit and nominating and corporate governance committees of the board of directors of New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc., the largest private educational services provider in China that is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Li received a bachelor’s degree in information science from Peking University in China and a master’s degree in computer science from the State University of New York at Buffalo. Jennifer Li has served as our chief financial officer since March 2008. Prior to joining our company, Ms. Li served as controller of General Motors Acceptance Corporation’s North American Operations from 2005 to 2008. Prior to GMAC, Ms. Li worked at General Motors China, where she was responsible for overseeing finance functions of General Motors’ wholly owned and joint venture businesses in China from 2001 to 2004, with the last 72 Table of Contents post as its chief financial officer. From 1994 to 2001, she held several other finance positions at General Motors in China, Singapore, the United States and Canada. Ms. Li holds an MBA degree from the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, B.C., Canada and a bachelor of arts degree from Tsinghua University in China. William I. Chang has served as our chief scientist since January 2007. Dr. Chang is a recognized expert in search technology, online community and advertising business models. From 2001 to January 2007, he served as chairman, president and chief executive officer of the Affini, Inc., a search technology and software company he founded. Since January 2007, he has served as chairman of Affini, Inc. From 2000 to 2001, Dr. Chang served as chief technology officer at Sentius Corporation, a hypertext software company, where he created a contextual advertising product. From 1998 to 1999, Dr. Chang served as vice president of Go Network. From 1997 to 1998, he was the chief technology officer of Infoseek, where he created the Infoseek natural language search engine for both the Internet search and enterprise applications. From 1991 to 1995, Dr. Chang worked as a postdoctoral fellow and associate staff researcher with the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, where he mapped a genome and invented a protein sequence search methodology. Dr. Chang received a bachelor’s degree in mathematics from Harvard University and a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley. William Decker has served as our independent director since October 2005. Mr. Decker currently serves as an independent director and the chairman of the audit committee of VisionChina Media Inc., a Nasdaq-listed company that operates an out-of-home advertising network in China. He is a retired partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Prior to his retirement in July 2005, Mr. Decker was the senior partner in charge of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s Global Capital Markets Group. He led a team of more than 300 professionals in 25 countries to provide technical support to non-U.S. companies on SEC regulations and U.S. GAAP reporting and assistance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance work. He was also one of PricewaterhouseCoopers’ lead authorities on the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Mr. Decker received a bachelor’s degree in accounting from Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey. James Ding has served as our independent director since our initial public offering in August 2005. Mr. Ding is a managing director of GSR Ventures, a venture capital fund focusing on early stage technology companies in China. He also has served as the chairman of the board of directors of AsiaInfo Holdings, Inc., a Nasdaq-listed company, since April 2003 and has served as a member of the board of AsiaInfo since its inception. He served as AsiaInfo’s chief executive officer from May 1999 to April 2003. He was AsiaInfo’s senior vice president for business development and chief technology officer from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Ding received a master’s degree in information science from the University of California, Los Angeles and a bachelor’s degree in chemistry from Peking University in China. Nobuyuki Idei has served as our independent director since June 2007. An experienced director, Mr. Idei also currently serves as chairman of the advisory board of Sony Corporation, director of Accenture, director of Red Herring and chairman of the National Conference on Fostering Beautiful Forests in Japan. Mr. Idei is founder and CEO of Quantum Leaps Corporation, a specialist consultancy that advises private and public institutions on the changing role of technology in the 21st century. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Idei was chairman and CEO of Sony Corporation. Prior to that, he held a range of leadership positions at Sony including general manager of the audio division, senior general manager of the home video group, and president and representative director. Mr. Idei has also served in a number of other advisory positions including as counselor to the Bank of Japan, member of Japan’s national IT Strategy Council, and as vice chairman of Nippon Keidanren. Mr. Idei received a bachelor of science degree in economics and politics from Waseda University in Tokyo. Greg Penner has served as our director since July 2004. Mr. Penner is a general partner of Madrone Capital Partners, an investment firm based in Menlo Park, California. From 2002 to 2004, he was the senior vice president and chief financial officer of Wal-Mart Japan, and was a director of The Seiyu, Ltd., a Japanese retailer from 2002 to 2008 when the company was acquired by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Penner was responsible for the business development, legal and finance affairs of Walmart.com, Wal-Mart’s Internet business based in California. Prior to joining Wal-Mart, Mr. Penner was a general partner at Peninsula Capital, an early stage venture capital fund. In addition to Baidu, Mr. Penner also serves as a director of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the Hyatt Hotels Corporation, where he is a member of the finance committee, Cuil, Inc., a privately held Internet search engine developer and 99Bill Corporation, based in Shanghai, China. Mr. Penner received a bachelor’s degree in 73 Table of Contents international economics from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and an M.B.A. degree from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. B. Compensation In 2009, we paid an aggregate of approximately RMB9.9 million (US$1.5 million) in cash compensation and granted options to purchase an aggregate of 51,706 Class A ordinary shares to our executive officers as a group (including our former chief operating officer and former chief technology officer, who resigned separately in January 2010 and are not listed under “— A. Directors and Senior Management”). We also paid an aggregate of approximately RMB0.8 million (US$0.1 million) in cash compensation to our non-executive directors as a group. We did not grant any new share-based awards to our non-executive directors in 2009. Our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities are required by law to make contributions equal to certain percentages of each employee’s salary for his or her pension insurance, medical insurance, housing fund, unemployment and other statutory benefits. Other than the above-mentioned pension insurance mandated by applicable PRC law, we have not set aside or accrued any amount to provide pension, retirement or other similar benefits to our executive officers and directors. No executive officer is entitled to any severance benefits upon termination of his or her employment with our company except as required under applicable PRC law. Our board of directors and shareholders approved the issuance of up to 5,040,000 ordinary shares upon exercise of awards granted under our 2000 option plan. As of December 31, 2009, an aggregate of 202,368 Class A ordinary shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding awards granted under our 2000 option plan. At the annual general meeting held on December 16, 2008, our shareholders approved a new 2008 share incentive plan, which has reserved an additional 3,428,777 Class A ordinary shares for awards to be granted pursuant to its terms. As of December 31, 2009, no awards had been granted under the 2008 share incentive plan. The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2009, the outstanding options and restricted shares that we granted to our current directors and executive officers and to other individuals as a group under our 2000 option plan. Ordinary Shares Underlying Outstanding Exercise Price Name Options (US$/Share) Grant Date Expiration Date Robin Yanhong Li 22,050 49.25 February 15, 2006 February 15, 2011 15,000 124.90 January 24, 2007 January 24, 2012 20,000 133.86 February 11, 2009 February 11, 2014 Jennifer Li * (1) — April 16, 2008 N/A * 133.86 February 11, 2009 February 11, 2014 William I. Chang * 124.90 January 24, 2007 January 24, 2012 William Decker * (1) — January 11, 2008 N/A James Ding * (1) — January 11, 2008 N/A Nobuyuki Idei * 183.23 January 10, 2008 July 25, 2012 Greg Penner * (1) — January 11, 2008 N/A Other individuals as a group(2) 109,356 — — — * The options and restricted shares in aggregate held by each of these directors and officers represent less than 1% of our total outstanding shares. (1) Restricted shares. (2) Includes our former chief operating officer and former chief technology officer, who resigned separately in January 2010. 74 Table of Contents The following paragraphs summarize the key terms of our 2000 option plan, which was amended and restated on December 16, 2008, and our 2008 share incentive plan. 2000 Option Plan Types of Awards. We may grant the following types of awards under our 2000 option plan: • our ordinary shares; • options to purchase our ordinary shares; and • any other securities with value derived from the value of our ordinary shares. Plan Administration. Our board of directors, or a committee designated by our board of directors, administers our 2000 option plan. In each case, our board of directors or the committee, will determine the provisions and terms and conditions of each award grant. These include, among other things, the option vesting schedule, repurchase provisions, rights of first refusal, forfeiture provisions, form of payment upon settlement of an award, payment contingencies and satisfaction of any performance criteria. Award Agreement. Awards granted under our 2000 option plan are evidenced by an award agreement that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each award. In addition, in the case of options, the award agreement also specifies whether the option constitutes an incentive stock option, or ISO, or a non-qualifying stock option. Eligibility. We may grant awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company or any of our related entities, which include our subsidiaries or any entities in which we hold a substantial ownership interest. However, we may grant ISOs only to our employees and employees of our majority-owned subsidiaries. Acceleration of Awards upon Corporate Transactions. The outstanding awards will accelerate upon occurrence of a change-of-control corporate transaction in which the successor entity does not assume our outstanding awards under our 2000 option plan. In such event, each outstanding award will become fully vested and immediately exercisable, the transfer restrictions on the awards will be released (other than those applicable to ISOs), and the repurchase or forfeiture rights will terminate immediately before the date of the change-of-control transaction. If the successor entity assumes our outstanding awards and later terminates the grantee’s employment or service without cause, or if the grantee resigns voluntarily with good cause within 12 months of the change-of-control transaction, the outstanding awards automatically become fully vested and exercisable. Exercise Price and Term of Awards. If we grant an ISO to an employee, who, at the time of that grant, owns shares representing more than 10% of the voting power of all classes of our share capital, the exercise price cannot be less than 110% of the fair market value of our ordinary shares on the date of that grant. To the extent not prohibited by applicable law or exchange rules, a downward adjustment of the exercise price per share subject to an outstanding option may be made in the absolute discretion of the plan administrator without the approval of our shareholders or the affected grantees. The term of each award is stated in the award agreement. The term may not exceed ten years from the date of the grant, except that five years is the maximum term of an ISO granted to an employee who holds more than 10% of the voting power of our share capital. Vesting Schedule. In general, the plan administrator determines, or the award agreement specifies, the vesting schedule. Options generally vest over a four-year period beginning from one year after the grant date. The award agreements may provide that grantees may elect at any time during their employment or service to exercise any part or all of the awards prior to full vesting of the awards. But such early exercise may be subject to a repurchase right as determined by the plan administrator. When an optionee’s employment or service is terminated, the optionee may exercise his or her options that have vested as of the termination date within three months of termination or as determined by our plan administrator. Repurchase Rights. If an award agreement provides for repurchase rights upon termination of a grantee’s employment or service, it must (or may, with respect to awards granted to officers, directors or consultants) provide that (i) such repurchase right must be exercised within 90 days of termination of the grantee’s employment or 75 Table of Contents service (or, in the case of exercise of awards after termination of the grantee’s employment or service, within 90 days following such exercise), (ii) the repurchase price must be equal to the original purchase price paid by the grantee for each such share, and (iii) the right to repurchase will lapse at the rate of at least 20% of the shares subject to the award per year over five years from the date the award is granted (without respect to the date the award was exercised or became exercisable). Amendment and Termination. Our board of directors may at any time amend, suspend or terminate our 2000 option plan. Amendments to our 2000 option plan are subject to shareholder approval, to the extent required by law, or by stock exchange rules or regulations. Any amendment, suspension or termination of our 2000 option plan must not adversely affect awards already granted without written consent of the recipient of such awards. Unless terminated earlier, our 2000 option plan shall continue in effect for a term of ten years from the date of adoption. 2008 Share Incentive Plan Types of Awards. We may grant the following types of awards under our 2008 share incentive plan: • options; • restricted shares; • restricted share units; and • any other form of award granted to a participant pursuant to the 2008 plan. Plan Administration. The compensation committee of our board of directors administers our 2008 share incentive plan, but may delegate to a committee of one or more members of our board of directors the authority to grant or amend awards to participants other than independent directors and executive officers. The compensation committee will determine the provisions and terms and conditions of each award grant, including, but not limited to, the exercise price, the grant price or purchase price, any restrictions or limitations on the award, any schedule for lapse of forfeiture restrictions or restrictions on the exercisability of an award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, any provisions related to non-competition and recapture of gain on an award, based in each case on such considerations as the committee in its sole discretion determines. The compensation committee has the sole power and discretion to cancel, forfeit or surrender an outstanding award (whether or not in exchange for another award or combination or awards). Award Agreement. Awards granted under our 2008 share incentive plan are evidenced by an award agreement that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each award which may include the term of an award, the provisions applicable in the event the participant’s employment or service ends, and our authority to unilaterally or bilaterally amend, modify, suspend, cancel or rescind an award. Eligibility. We may grant awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company or any of our related entities, which include our subsidiaries or any entities in which we hold a substantial ownership interest. However, we may grant ISOs only to our employees and employees of our majority-owned subsidiaries. Acceleration of Awards upon Corporate Transactions. The outstanding awards will accelerate upon occurrence of a change-of-control corporate transaction in which the successor entity does not assume our outstanding awards under our 2008 share incentive plan, provided that the plan participant remains an employee, consultant or member of our board of directors on the effective date of the corporate transaction. In such event, each outstanding award will become fully exercisable and all forfeiture restrictions on such award will lapse immediately prior to the specified effective date of the corporate transaction. If the successor entity assumes our outstanding awards and later terminates the grantee’s employment or service without cause, or if the grantee resigns voluntarily with good reason within 12 months of the corporate transaction, the outstanding awards automatically will become fully vested and exercisable. The compensation committee may also, in its sole discretion, upon or in anticipation of a corporate transaction, accelerate awards, purchase the awards from the plan participants, replace the awards, or provide for the payment of the awards in cash. Exercise Price and Term of Awards. The exercise price per share subject to an option may be amended or adjusted in the absolute discretion of the compensation committee, the determination of which shall be final, 76 Table of Contents binding and conclusive. To the extent not prohibited by applicable laws or exchange rules, a downward adjustment of the exercise prices of options mentioned in the preceding sentence shall be effective without the approval of our shareholders or the approval of the affected grantees. If we grant an ISO to an employee, who, at the time of that grant, owns shares representing more than 10% of the voting power of all classes of our share capital, the exercise price cannot be less than 110% of the fair market value of our ordinary shares on the date of that grant. The compensation committee will determine the time or times at which an option may be exercised in whole or in part, including exercise prior to vesting. The term may not exceed ten years from the date of the grant, except that five years is the maximum term of an ISO granted to an employee who holds more than 10% of the voting power of our share capital. Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Unites. The compensation committee is also authorized to make awards of restricted shares and restricted share units. Except as otherwise determined by the compensation committee at the time of the grant of an award or thereafter, upon termination of employment or service during the applicable restriction period, restricted shares that are at the time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited or repurchased in accordance with the respective award agreements. At the time of grant for restricted share units, the compensation committee shall specify the date on which the restricted share units shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable, and may specify such conditions to vesting as it deems appropriate. Amendment and Termination. With the approval of our board of directors, the compensation committee may at any time amend, suspend or terminate our 2008 share incentive plan. Amendments to our 2008 share incentive plan are subject to shareholder approval, to the extent required by law, or by stock exchange rules or regulations. Any amendment, suspension or termination of our 2008 share incentive plan must not adversely affect in any material way awards already granted without written consent of the recipient of such awards. Unless terminated earlier, our 2008 share incentive plan shall continue in effect for a term of ten years from the date of adoption. C. Board Practices Board of Directors Our board of directors has five directors. A director is not required to hold any shares in the company by way of qualification. A director may vote with respect to any contract, proposed contract or arrangement in which he is materially interested. A director may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, mortgage its undertakings, property and uncalled capital, and issue debentures or other securities whenever money is borrowed or as security for any obligation of the company or of any third party. The remuneration to be paid to the directors are determined by the board of directors. There is no age limit requirement for directors. Committees of the Board of Directors We have three committees under the board of directors: an audit committee, a compensation committee and a corporate governance and nominating committee. We have adopted a charter for each of the three committees. Audit Committee Our audit committee consists of Messrs. William Decker, James Ding and Greg Penner, all of whom satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules and Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our board of directors has determined that Mr. Decker is an audit committee financial expert as defined in the instructions to Item 16A of the Form 20-F. The audit committee oversees our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audits of the financial statements of our company. The audit committee is responsible for, among other things: • appointing, retaining and overseeing the work of the independent auditors, including resolving disagreements between the management and the independent auditors relating to financial reporting; • pre-approving all auditing and non-auditing services permitted to be performed by the independent auditors; • reviewing annually the independence and quality control procedures of the independent auditors; • reviewing and approving all proposed related party transactions; 77 Table of Contents • discussing the annual audited financial statements with the management; • meeting separately with the independent auditors to discuss critical accounting policies, management letters, recommendations on internal controls, the auditor’s engagement letter and independence letter and other material written communications between the independent auditors and the management; and • attending to such other matters that are specifically delegated to our audit committee by our board of directors from time to time. In 2009, our audit committee held meetings or passed resolutions by unanimous written consent five times. Compensation Committee Our compensation committee consists of Messrs. James Ding and Greg Penner, both of whom satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. The compensation committee assists the board in reviewing and approving our compensation structure, including all forms of compensation relating to our directors and executive officers. Our chief executive officer may not be present at any committee meeting while his compensation is deliberated. The compensation committee is responsible for, among other things: • reviewing and approving executive compensation; • reviewing periodically and approving any long-term incentive compensation or equity plans, programs or similar arrangements, annual bonuses, employee pension and welfare benefit plans; • determining our policy with respect to change of control or “parachute” payments; and • managing and reviewing director and executive officer indemnification and insurance matters. In 2009, our compensation committee passed resolutions by unanimous written consent once. Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Our corporate governance and nominating committee consists of Messrs. James Ding and Greg Penner, both of whom satisfy the “independence” requirements of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. The corporate governance and nominating committee assists the board of directors in selecting individuals qualified to become our directors and in determining the composition of the board and its committees. The corporate governance and nominating committee is responsible for, among other things: • recommending to the board nominees for election or re-election to the board or for appointments to fill any vacancies; • reviewing annually the performance of each incumbent director in determining whether to recommend such director for an additional term; • overseeing the board in the board’s annual review of its own performance and the performance of the management; and • considering, preparing and recommending to the board such policies and procedures with respect to corporate governance matters as may be required or required to be disclosed under the applicable laws or otherwise considered to be material. In 2009, our corporate governance and nominating committee passed resolutions by unanimous written consent once. Terms of Directors and Executive Officers All directors hold office until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. Director nomination is subject to the approval of our corporate governance and nominating committee. Our shareholders may remove any director by ordinary resolution and may in like manner appoint another person in his stead. A valid ordinary 78 Table of Contents resolution requires a majority of the votes cast at a shareholder meeting that is duly constituted and meets the quorum requirement. Officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the board of directors. D. Employees We had 6,252, 6,387 and 7,353 employees as of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had 471 employees in management and administration, 1,726 employees in research and development, 700 employees in operation and service, and 4,456 employees in sales and marketing. We also hire temporary employees and contractors from time to time. Our employees are not covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be generally good. However, as our operations and employee base further expand, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to maintain good relations with all of our employees. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively.” E. Share Ownership The following table sets forth information with respect to the beneficial ownership of our shares as of December 31, 2009 by: • each of our current directors and executive officers; and • each person known to us to own beneficially more than 5% of our shares. See “— B. Compensation” for more details on options and restricted shares granted to our directors and executive officers. Shares Beneficially Owned Directors and Executive Officers: Number(1) %(2) Robin Yanhong Li(3) 5,601,527 16.1 % Jennifer Li(4) * * William Chang(5) * * William Decker(6) * * James Ding(7) * * Nobuyuki Idei(8) * * Greg Penner(9) 878,333 2.5 % All Directors and Executive Officers as a Group(10) 6,503,163 18.7 % Principal Shareholders: Handsome Reward Limited(11) 5,490,000 15.8 % Marsico Capital Management, LLC(12) 2,435,495 7.0 % * Less than 1% of our total outstanding shares. (1) The number of shares beneficially owned by each named director and executive officer includes the shares beneficially owned by such person, the shares underlying all options held by such person that have vested or will vest within 60 days after December 31, 2009, and restricted shares held by such person that will vest within 60 days after December 31, 2009. The options and restricted shares were granted under our 2000 option plan. (2) Percentage of beneficial ownership of each named director and executive officer is based on 34,753,292 ordinary shares (consisting of 26,298,960 Class A ordinary shares and 8,454,332 Class B ordinary shares) of our company outstanding as of December 31, 2009, the number of ordinary shares underlying options that have vested or will vest within 60 days after December 31, 2009, and the number of restricted shares that will vest within 60 days after December 31, 2009, each as held by such person as of that date. 79 Table of Contents (3) Includes (i) 37,665 Class A ordinary shares held by Mr. Li, (ii) 35,249 Class A Ordinary Shares in the form of ADSs held in the brokerage account of the administrator of our employee stock option program, (iii) 38,613 Class A ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options held by Mr. Li, and (iv) 5,490,000 Class B ordinary shares held by Handsome Reward Limited, a company wholly owned and controlled by Mr. Li. Excludes 1,676,667 Class B ordinary shares held by Melissa Ma, Mr. Li’s wife, of which Mr. Li disclaims beneficial ownership. The business address for Mr. Li is c/o Baidu, Inc., Baidu Campus, No. 10 Shangdi 10th Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100085, PRC. (4) The business address for Ms. Li is c/o Baidu, Inc., Baidu Campus, No. 10 Shangdi 10th Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100085, PRC. (5) The business address for Mr. Chang is c/o Baidu, Inc., Baidu Campus, No. 10 Shangdi 10th Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100085, PRC. (6) The address of Mr. Decker is 24 Nordic Way, Saranac Lake, NY, 12983, USA. (7) The business address of Mr. Ding is 4/F, Zhongdian Information Tower No. 6 Zhongguancun South Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100086, PRC. (8) The business address of Mr. Idei’s address is Tokyo Ginko Kyoukai Building 16F,1-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-0005, Japan. (9) Includes (i) 27,683 Class A ordinary shares in the form of ADSs held by Mr. Penner, (ii) 650 restricted shares, (iii) 150,000 Class A ordinary shares in the form of ADSs held by Madrone Partners, LP, a fund for which Mr. Penner serves as a managing member of the sole manager; and (iv) 700,000 Class B ordinary shares held by Peninsula Capital Fund I, LLC. Mr. Penner is the sole manager of Peninsula Capital Fund I, LLC, and has sole voting and dispositive power over all the shares held by Peninsula Capital Fund I, LLC. Mr. Penner disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by Madrone Partners, LP and Peninsula Capital Fund I, LLC, except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein. The business address for Mr. Penner is 3000 Sand Hill Road, Building 1, Suite 150, Menlo Park, California 94025, U.S.A. (10) Includes ordinary shares, ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options and restricted shares, held by all of our directors and executive officers as a group. (11) Represents 5,490,000 Class B ordinary shares held by Handsome Reward Limited, a British Virgin Island company wholly owned and controlled by Mr. Robin Yanhong Li. The business address of Handsome Reward Limited is c/o Robin Yanhong Li, Baidu, Inc., Baidu Campus, No. 10 Shangdi 10th Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100085, PRC. (12) Represents 2,435,495 Class A ordinary shares in the form of ADSs held by Marsico Capital Management, LLC, as reported on Schedule 13G filed by Marsico Capital Management, LLC on February 10, 2010. The percentage of beneficial ownership was calculated based on the total number of our ordinary shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The address of Marsico Capital Management, LLC is 1200 17th Street, Suite 1600, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering in 2005. Holders of our Class B ordinary shares may choose to convert their Class B ordinary shares into the same number of Class A ordinary shares at any time. We are not aware of any arrangement that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change of control of our company. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our ADSs — Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial.” As of December 31, 2009, 34,753,292 of our ordinary shares were issued and outstanding. To our knowledge, approximately 79% of our total outstanding ordinary shares were held by five record shareholders in the United States, including approximately 76% held by The Bank of New York Mellon, the depositary of our ADS program. The number of beneficial owners of our ADSs in the United States is likely to be much larger than the number of record holders of our ordinary shares in the United States. 80 Table of Contents Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major Shareholders Please refer to “Item 6.E. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Share Ownership.” B. Related Party Transactions Contractual Arrangements with Baidu Netcom and Its Shareholders PRC law currently limits foreign equity ownership of companies that provide Internet content and online advertising businesses. To comply with these foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our websites and provide online advertising services in China through a series of contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom and its shareholders, Robin Yanhong Li and Eric Yong Xu. In March 2005, we restructured these contractual arrangements. The following is a summary of these contractual arrangements as currently in effect. Exclusive Technology Consulting and Services Agreement. Pursuant to the exclusive technology consulting and services agreement between Baidu Online and Baidu Netcom, Baidu Online has the exclusive right to provide to Baidu Netcom technology consulting and services related to the maintenance of servers, software development and design of advertisements. Baidu Online also seconds employees to Baidu Netcom for whom Baidu Netcom bears the costs and expenses. Baidu Online owns the intellectual property rights related to the software developed by Baidu Online for Baidu Netcom. Baidu Netcom pays monthly service fees to Baidu Online based upon a pre-agreed formula, which takes into account the number of monthly page views and the basic fee for every one thousand page views of advertisements displayed on our websites. The basic fee for every one thousand page views is subject to periodic adjustment. The current rate of the basic fee is RMB1.293. The term of this agreement is ten years from the date thereof. Business Cooperation Agreement. Pursuant to the business cooperation agreement between Baidu Netcom and Baidu Online, Baidu Netcom provides Internet information services, Internet advertising services and related services to Baidu Online to enable Baidu Online to provide P4P services on the websites owned and operated by Baidu Netcom, and Baidu Online provides search engine technology services to Baidu Netcom. Baidu Online agrees to pay a monthly fee of RMB10,000 to Baidu Netcom. The term of this agreement is ten years from the date thereof. Operating Agreement. Pursuant to the operating agreement among Baidu Online, Baidu Netcom and the shareholders of Baidu Netcom, Baidu Online provides guidance and instructions on Baidu Netcom’s daily operations and financial affairs. The shareholders of Baidu Netcom must designate the candidates recommended by Baidu Online as their representatives on Baidu Netcom’s board of directors. Baidu Online has the right to appoint senior executives of Baidu Netcom. In addition, Baidu Online agrees to guarantee Baidu Netcom’s performance under any agreements or arrangements relating to Baidu Netcom’s business arrangements with any third party. Baidu Netcom, in return, agrees to pledge its accounts receivable and all of its assets to Baidu Online. Moreover, Baidu Netcom agrees that without the prior consent of Baidu Online, Baidu Netcom will not engage in any transactions that could materially affect the assets, liabilities, rights or operations of Baidu Netcom, including, without limitation, incurrence or assumption of any indebtedness, sale or purchase of any assets or rights, incurrence of any encumbrance on any of its assets or intellectual property rights in favor of a third party or transfer of any agreements relating to its business operation to any third party. The term of this agreement is ten years from the date thereof. Software License Agreement. Under the software license agreement, Baidu Online granted Baidu Netcom a non-exclusive, non-assignable and non-transferable right to use “Baidu Chinese Search Engine” and “Baidu Internet P4P System” software. Baidu Netcom can only use the software on its designated operating systems to process its internal data. The annual license fee for each software is RMB5.0 million. When deciding the amount of the annual license fee, Baidu Online and Baidu Netcom considered several factors, including functionality and quality of the software, past and ongoing research and development costs incurred by Baidu Online in developing and upgrading the software, license fees of other portal search software applications, Baidu Online’s enterprise search application license fees, and Baidu Netcom’s financial resources and projected operating results. The initial term of the license agreement was five years from the date thereof and has been extended for another five years. 81 Table of Contents Other License Agreements. Under these license agreements, Baidu Online granted Baidu Netcom the exclusive right to use the registered domain names and trademarks owned by Baidu Online and the web layout owned by Baidu Online for the websites operated by Baidu Netcom. The annual license fee under each license agreement is RMB10,000, subject to certain adjustments. The initial term of each license agreement was five years from the date thereof and has been extended for another five years. The domain name license agreement was terminated upon the completion of the transfers of certain domain names primarily used in our business from our company or Baidu Online to Baidu Netcom in May 2008. After the transfers of certain trademarks (including pending trademark applications) from Baidu Online to Baidu Netcom are completed, the trademark license agreement will be amended or terminated. We do not expect the termination of these license agreements to have any material effect on our operations. Proxy Agreement. Pursuant to the proxy agreement among Baidu Online, Baidu Netcom and the shareholders of Baidu Netcom, the shareholders of Baidu Netcom agree to entrust all the rights to exercise their voting power to the person(s) appointed by Baidu Online. The term of the proxy agreement is 10 years from the date thereof. Equity Pledge Agreement. Under the equity pledge agreement between the shareholders of Baidu Netcom and Baidu Online, the shareholders of Baidu Netcom pledged all of their equity interests in Baidu Netcom to Baidu Online to guarantee their obligations under the loan agreement and Baidu Netcom’s performance of its obligations under the exclusive technology consulting and service agreement. If Baidu Netcom or either of its shareholders breaches its respective contractual obligations, Baidu Online, as pledgee, will be entitled to certain rights, including the right to sell the pledged equity interests. The shareholders of Baidu Netcom agreed not to dispose of the pledged equity interests or take any actions that would prejudice Baidu Online’s interest. The equity pledge agreement will expire two years after expiration of the term for fulfillment by Baidu Netcom and its shareholders of their respective obligations under the exclusive technology consulting and service agreement and the loan agreement. Exclusive Equity Purchase Option Agreement. Under the exclusive equity purchase option agreement between the shareholders of Baidu Netcom and Baidu Online, the shareholders of Baidu Netcom irrevocably granted Baidu Online or its designated person an exclusive option to purchase, to the extent permitted under PRC law, all or part of the equity interests in Baidu Netcom for the cost of the initial contributions to the registered capital or the minimum amount of consideration permitted by applicable PRC law. Baidu Online or its designated person has sole discretion to decide when to exercise the option, whether in part or in full. The term of this agreement is ten years from the date thereof. Loan Agreement. Under the loan agreement between the shareholders of Baidu Netcom and Baidu Online, the parties confirmed that Baidu Online had made an RMB2.0 million interest-free loan to the shareholders of Baidu Netcom solely for the latter to fund the capitalization of Baidu Netcom. The loan can be repaid only with the proceeds from sale of the shareholder’s equity interest in Baidu Netcom to Baidu Online. The term of the agreement is ten years from the date thereof. Irrevocable Power of Attorney. The shareholders of Baidu Netcom have each executed an irrevocable power of attorney to appoint Xuyang Ren as their attorney-in-fact to vote on their behalf on all Baidu Netcom matters requiring shareholder approval. The appointment of Xuyang Ren as attorney-in-fact will terminate if Xuyang Ren is no longer employed by Baidu Online. The term of the power of attorney is ten years from the date thereof. In February 2006 and March 2008, we extended two additional interest-free loans of RMB8.0 million and RMB90.0 million, respectively, to Robin Yanhong Li for the sole purpose of increasing the registered capital of Baidu Netcom. In connection with each loan, we entered into the following agreements with Mr. Li: • a loan agreement; • an equity pledge agreement between Robin Yanhong Li and Baidu Online; and • an exclusive equity purchase option agreement among Robin Yanhong Li, Baidu Netcom and Baidu Online. The terms of these agreements are similar to the terms of the original agreements between Baidu Online and the shareholders of Baidu Netcom entered into in March 2005. In addition, under the terms of the original proxy agreement entered into in March 2005, Mr. Li is required to entrust all the rights to exercise the additional voting 82 Table of Contents power he acquired as a result of his additional investment in the registered capital of Baidu Netcom to the person(s) appointed by Baidu Online. Contractual Arrangements with Beijing Perusal and Its Shareholders In June 2006, we assisted in establishing Beijing Perusal, which is directly owned by two individuals designated by us. We extended an interest-free loan in an aggregate amount of RMB1.0 million to the shareholders of Beijing Perusal solely in connection with the initial capitalization of Beijing Perusal. We entered into a series of agreements with Beijing Perusal and its shareholders in order to be the primary beneficiary of, and substantially control, Beijing Perusal. Beijing Perusal became our consolidated affiliated entity as a result of these contractual arrangements. Beijing Perusal holds the necessary permits to conduct online advertising services in China. Our agreements with Beijing Perusal and its shareholders include: • loan agreements for interest-free loans in an aggregate amount of RMB1.0 million to the shareholders of Beijing Perusal; • equity pledge agreements between the shareholders of Beijing Perusal and Baidu Online; • exclusive equity purchase option agreements among Beijing Perusal, Baidu Online and the shareholders of Beijing Perusal; • a proxy agreement between the shareholders of Beijing Perusal and Baidu Online; • an exclusive technology consulting and services agreement between Beijing Perusal and Baidu Online; • an operating agreement among Beijing Perusal, Baidu Online, and the shareholders of Beijing Perusal; and • various license agreements between Beijing Perusal and Baidu Online, including domain name license agreements, trademark license agreements and web page copyright license agreements. The domain name license agreement was terminated in May 2008 because Beijing Perusal already owns the domain names primarily used in its business. After the transfers of certain pending trademark applications from Baidu Online to Beijing Perusal are completed, the trademark license agreement will be terminated. We do not expect the termination of these license agreements to have any material effect on our operations. The terms of these contractual arrangements are similar to the terms of our contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom and its shareholders. Contractual Arrangements with BaiduPay and Its Individual Shareholder In February 2008, we assisted in establishing BaiduPay, which is directly owned by Baidu Netcom and an individual designated by our company. We extended an interest-free loan in an aggregate amount of RMB9.0 million to the individual shareholder solely in connection with the initial capitalization of BaiduPay. We entered into a series of agreements with BaiduPay and the individual shareholder in order to be the primary beneficiary of, and substantially control, BaiduPay. BaiduPay became our consolidated affiliated entity as a result of these contractual arrangements. BaiduPay operates an online payment platform. Our agreements with BaiduPay and its individual shareholder include: • a loan agreement for interest-free loan in an aggregate amount of RMB9.0 million to the individual shareholder of BaiduPay; • an equity pledge agreement between the individual shareholder of BaiduPay and Baidu Online; • an exclusive equity purchase option agreement among BaiduPay, Baidu Online and the individual shareholder of BaiduPay; • a proxy agreement between the individual shareholder of BaiduPay and Baidu Online; • an exclusive technology consulting and services agreement between BaiduPay and Baidu Online; • operating agreement among BaiduPay, Baidu Online and the shareholders of BaiduPay; and 83 Table of Contents • a trademark license agreement and a web page copyright license agreement between BaiduPay and Baidu Online. After the transfer of a pending trademark application from Baidu Online to BaiduPay is completed, the trademark license agreement will be terminated. We do not expect the termination of this agreement to have any material effect on our operations. The terms of these contractual arrangements are similar to the terms of our contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom and its shareholders. Share Options and Restricted Shares Grants Please refer to “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation.” Transaction with UiTV In September 2008, we entered into agreements with UiTV, operator of an Internet television platform in China. Under these agreements, we would contribute assets related to the operation of Baidu Internet TV channel to UiTV in exchange for an 8.3% stake in UiTV and US$15 million. James Ding, one of our independent directors, is the chairman of UiTV and owns approximately 17.6% of the equity interests in UiTV. The agreements with UiTV were terminated in December 2009. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel Not applicable. Item 8 Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information We have appended consolidated financial statements filed as part of this annual report. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we have been involved in litigation or other disputes regarding, among other things, copyright and trademark infringement, defamation, unfair competition and labor disputes. Our search results provide links to materials, and our Baidu Post Bar, Baidu Knows, Baidu Space and other Baidu communities may contain materials, in which others may allege to own copyrights, trademarks or image rights or which others may claim to be defamatory or objectionable. We have received notice letters from third parties asserting copyright infringement, unfair competition, defamation, breach of contract and labor-related claims against us. As of December 31, 2009, we were involved in 37 cases pending in various PRC courts, including the cases summarized below. The aggregate amount of compensation sought under these cases is approximately RMB77.2 million (US$11.3 million). In March 2008, we received complaints filed by three record companies against us, alleging, among other things, that we have aided illegal online copying of music by providing links to pirated music. In January 2010, the First Intermediate People’s Court of Beijing, in separately issued rulings, dismissed the complaints filed by the three record companies. Applying the Protection of the Right of Communication through Information Network, which was promulgated by the State Council and became effective on July 1, 2006, the court held that the record companies’ claims lacked factual and legal basis. The plaintiffs have filed appeals with the High People’s Court of Beijing. In December 2009, the Haidian District People’s Court in Beijing issued a ruling against us in a lawsuit filed by the Music Copyright Society of China. In the ruling, the court held that our display of certain song lyrics in response to users’ search requests constituted infringement of the plaintiff’s rights of communication through information network, and ordered us to pay for the plaintiff’s damages and litigation related expenses totaling RMB60,000. We have appealed the court’s ruling with the First Intermediate People’s Court of Beijing. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — We may face intellectual 84 Table of Contents property infringement claims and other related claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and may result in our inability to continue providing certain of our existing services.” In January 2009, we received a complaint filed by a medical company alleging that we had violated the new PRC Anti-Monopoly Law by abusing our dominant market position to screen out the website of the medical company. In December 2009, the First Intermediate People’s Court of Beijing issued a ruling dismissing all the claims made by the plaintiff. In the ruling, the court held, among other things, that the plaintiff’s allegation that we have abused dominant market position as defined in the Anti-Monopoly Law lacks factual and legal support. The plaintiff has filed an appeal with the High People’s Court of Beijing. Because the Anti-Monopoly Law is still new, and there have been very few court rulings and no judicial or administrative interpretations on certain key concepts used in the law, there is no assurance that a court would reach the same conclusion in a similar case against us in the future. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” In June 2009, a plaintiff filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging that we had infringed its copyrights to certain music works. In December 2009, the court granted our motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds of insufficient service of process and lack of personal jurisdiction. The plaintiff did not appeal the court’s ruling. Although we cannot predict with certainty the results of pending litigation and claims, we believe that the final outcome of pending litigation and claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Regardless of the outcome, however, any litigation can result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources and attention. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any dividends, nor do we have any present plan to pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to operate and expand our business. Our board of directors has complete discretion whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to pay dividends, the form, frequency and amount of our dividends will depend upon our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. If we pay any dividends, we will pay our ADS holders to the same extent as holders of our ordinary shares, subject to the terms of the deposit agreement, including the fees and expenses payable thereunder. Cash dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, will be paid in U.S. dollars. B. Significant Changes Except as disclosed elsewhere in this annual report, we have not experienced any significant changes since the date of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Offering and Listing Details. Our ADSs, each representing one Class A ordinary share, have been listed on The NASDAQ Global Market since August 5, 2005. Our ADSs currently trade on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “BIDU.” 85 Table of Contents The following table provides the high and low trading prices for our ADSs on the NASDAQ for (1) the years 2005 (from August 5, 2005), 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, (2) each of the four quarters of 2008 and 2009 and (3) each of the past six months. Sales Price High Low Annual High and Low 2005 (from August 5, 2005) 153.98 60.00 2006 128.68 44.44 2007 429.19 92.80 2008 397.70 100.50 2009 443.25 105.00 Quarterly Highs and Lows First Quarter 2008 397.70 201.15 Second Quarter 2008 382.90 243.00 Third Quarter 2008 353.37 227.00 Fourth Quarter 2008 274.83 100.50 First Quarter 2009 197.69 105.00 Second Quarter 2009 310.25 171.02 Third Quarter 2009 408.00 268.03 Fourth Quarter 2009 443.25 353.03 Monthly Highs and Lows September 2009 408.00 316.49 October 2009 439.90 353.03 November 2009 443.25 369.12 December 2009 441.00 394.56 January 2010 470.25 384.66 February 2010 518.69 416.81 March 2010 (through March 25, 2010) 628.50 512.51 B. Plan of Distribution Not applicable. C. Markets Our ADSs, each representing one Class A ordinary share, have been listed on the NASDAQ since August 5, 2005 under the symbol “BIDU.” D. Selling Shareholders Not applicable. E. Dilution Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue Not applicable. 86 Table of Contents Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association The following are summaries of material provisions of our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as well as the Companies Law (2009 Revision) insofar as they relate to the material terms of our ordinary shares. Registered Office and Objects The Registered Office of our company is at the offices of Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands or at such other place as our board of directors may from time to time decide. The objects for which our company is established are unrestricted and we have full power and authority to carry out any object not prohibited by the Companies Law (2009 Revision), as amended from time to time, or any other law of the Cayman Islands. Board of Directors See “Item 6.C. Board Practices — Board of Directors.” Ordinary Shares General. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares have the same rights except for voting and conversion rights. All of our outstanding ordinary shares are fully paid and non-assessable. Certificates representing the ordinary shares are issued in registered form. Our shareholders who are nonresidents of the Cayman Islands may freely hold and vote their shares. Dividends. The holders of our ordinary shares are entitled to such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors subject to the Companies Law. Conversion. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder (as defined in our articles of incorporation), such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. In addition, if at any time our chairman and chief executive officer, Robin Yanhong Li, and his affiliates collectively own less than 5% of the total number of the issued and outstanding Class B ordinary shares, each issued and outstanding Class B ordinary share shall be automatically and immediately converted into one share of Class A ordinary share, and we shall not issue any Class B ordinary shares thereafter. Voting Rights. All of our shareholders have the right to receive notice of shareholders’ meetings and to attend, speak and vote at such meetings. In respect of matters requiring shareholders’ vote, each Class A ordinary share is entitled to one vote, and each Class B ordinary share is entitled to 10 votes. A shareholder may participate at a shareholders’ meeting in person, by proxy or by telephone conference or other communications equipment by means of which all the shareholders participating in the meeting can communicate with each other. At any shareholders’ meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a poll conducted by the chairman of the meeting. A quorum for a shareholders’ meeting consists of one or more shareholders holding at least one third of the paid up voting share capital present in person or by proxy or, if a corporation or other non-natural person, by its duly authorized representative. We shall, if required by the Companies Law, hold a general meeting of shareholders as our annual general meeting and shall specify the meeting as such in the notices calling it. Our board of directors may call extraordinary general meetings, and they must on shareholders’ requisition convene an extraordinary general 87 Table of Contents meeting. A shareholder requisition is a requisition of shareholders holding at the date of deposit of the requisition not less than a majority of the voting power represented by the issued shares of our company as at that date carries the right of voting at general meetings of our company. Advance notice of at least five days is required for the convening of our annual general meeting and other shareholders’ meetings. An ordinary resolution to be passed by the shareholders requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes attaching to the ordinary shares cast in a general meeting, while a special resolution requires the affirmative vote of no less than two-thirds of the votes cast attaching to the ordinary shares cast in a general meeting. A special resolution is required for matters such as a change of name. Holders of the ordinary shares may effect certain changes by ordinary resolution, including consolidating and dividing all or any of our share capital into shares of larger amount than our existing share capital and canceling any shares. Transfer of Shares. Subject to the restrictions of our memorandum and articles of association, as applicable, any of our shareholders may transfer any or all of his or her ordinary shares by an instrument of transfer in the usual or common form or any other form approved by our board of directors. Our board of directors may, in their absolute discretion (except with respect to a transfer from a shareholder to its affiliate(s)), decline to register any transfer of shares without assigning any reason therefor. If our board of directors refuses to register a transfer they shall notify the transferee within two months of such refusal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a transfer complies with the holder’s transfer obligations and restrictions set forth under applicable law (including but not limited to U.S. securities law provisions related to insider trading) and our articles of association, our board of directors shall promptly register such transfer. Further, any director is authorized to confirm in writing addressed to the registered office to authorize a share transfer and to instruct that the register of members be updated accordingly, provided that the transfer complies with the holder’s transfer obligations and restrictions set forth under applicable law and our articles of association and such holder is not the director who authorizes the transfer or an entity affiliated with such director. Any director is authorized to execute a share certificate in respect of such shares for and on behalf of our company. The registration of transfers may be suspended at such time and for such periods as our board of directors may from time to time determine, provided, however, that the registration of transfers shall not be suspended for more than 45 days in any year. Liquidation. On a return of capital on winding up or otherwise (other than on conversion, redemption or purchase of shares), assets available for distribution among the holders of ordinary shares may be distributed among the holders of the ordinary shares as determined by the liquidator, subject to sanction of a special resolution of our company. If our assets available for distribution are insufficient to repay all of the paid-up capital, the assets will be distributed so that the losses are borne by our shareholders proportionately to the capital paid up, or which ought to have been paid up, at the commencement of the winding up on the shares held by such shareholders respectively. Calls on Shares and Forfeiture of Shares. Our board of directors may from time to time make calls upon shareholders for any amounts unpaid on their shares in a notice served to such shareholders at least 14 days prior to the specified time and place of payment. The shares that have been called upon and remain unpaid on the specified time are subject to forfeiture. Redemption of Shares. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Law and our articles of association, we may issue shares on terms that are subject to redemption, at our option or at the option of the holders, on such terms and in such manner as our board of directors may determine. Repurchase of Shares. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Law and our articles of association, our board of directors may authorize repurchase of our shares in accordance with the manner of purchase specified in our articles of association without seeking shareholder approval. Variations of Rights of Shares. All or any of the special rights attached to any class of shares may, subject to the provisions of the Companies Law, be varied either with the written consent of the holders of a majority of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class. 88 Table of Contents Inspection of Books and Records. No holders of our ordinary shares who is not a director shall have any right of inspecting any of our accounts, books or documents except as conferred by the Companies Law or authorized by the directors or by us in general meeting. However, we will make this annual report, which contains our audited financial statements, available to shareholders and ADS holders. See “Item 10.H. Additional Information — Documents on Display.” Preferred Shares Our board of directors have the authority, without shareholder approval, to issue up to a total of 10,000,000 shares of preferred shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may set the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preferred shares. While the issuance of preferred shares provides us with flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions or other corporate purposes, it could, among other things, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control transaction and could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We have no current plan to issue any preferred shares. C. Material Contracts We have not entered into any material contracts other than in the ordinary course of business and other than those described in “