Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, there is limited basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, there is limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more domestic or international operating businesses in the U.S. homeland security or defense industries or a combination thereof. We will not generate any operating revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of the public offering and the private placement) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that an initial business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition (exclusive of Maxim Group LLC’s deferred underwriting compensation, including interest thereon, held in the trust account) within 18 months after the consummation of the public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of the public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of the public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18 month period). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We have contacted a number of potential target businesses and are in the process of holding discussions with certain of these potential target businesses with respect to a possible business combination. We currently expect to enter into a letter of intent with respect to a possible business combination on or prior to September 28, 2008. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate the trust account, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the U.S. securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission upon consummation of our initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. 12 Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. As of February 26, 2008, based upon publicly available information, we have identified approximately 153 blank check companies that have gone public since 2003. Of these companies, only 47 have completed a business combination, while 8 have liquidated or will be liquidating. The remaining approximately 98 blank check companies have more than $16.0 billion in trust and are seeking to complete business acquisitions. Of these companies, only 24 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated business combinations. In addition, there are 74 blank check companies seeking to raise approximately $12.8 billion in trust that have filed registration statements and will be seeking to complete business combinations. Furthermore, the fact that only 47 of such companies have completed business combinations and only 24 other of such companies have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent for business combinations, and 8 have liquidated or will be liquidating, may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive targets available to such entities or that many targets are not inclined to enter into a transaction with a blank check company, and therefore we also may not be able to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, our purpose will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Investors in our securities are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’s operations. We seek to acquire one or more domestic or international operating businesses in the U.S. homeland security or defense industries or a combination thereof, however, investors in our securities have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’s operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, an entity in its development stage and/or an entity subject to unknown or unmanageable liabilities, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in the public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders from the trust account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation will be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, target businesses, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate whether such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the initial $10.00 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account, franchise taxes payable to the State of Delaware, repayment of $250,000 of an additional officer loan made prior to closing of the public offering by Steven M. Wasserman (such loan was to be repaid within 90 days of the closing of the public offering, but has not been repaid through December 31, 2007)), due to claims of such creditors. Steven M. Wasserman, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Co-Chairman of the board of directors, and Robert B. Blaha, our Chief Management Officer, Executive Vice President and a director, have agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us or the claims of any target business or prospective target business, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Wasserman and Blaha will be able to satisfy those obligations. 13 Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Unlike most other bank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 34.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their redemption rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our initial stockholders) the right to redeem their shares of common stock for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 35% or more of the shares sold in the public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their redemption rights. Many other blank check companies have a redemption threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their redemption rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 34.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their redemption rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their redemption rights may require us to arrange third party financing in order to consummate a business combination. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our initial stockholders) the right to redeem their shares of common stock for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise their redemption rights to receive $10.00 per share (plus a portion of the interest income earned on the funds in the trust account), but net of: (i) taxes payable on interest income earned, State of Delaware franchise taxes, repayment of $250,000 of an additional officer loan made prior to closing of the public offering by Steven M. Wasserman (such loan was to be repaid within 90 days of the closing of the public offering, but has not been repaid through December 31, 2007), and (ii) up to $1,825,000 of interest income earned on the trust account released to us to fund our working capital and dissolution and liquidation expenses if we fail to consummate a business combination. Unlike most other blank check offerings which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 34.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their redemption rights and the business combination to go forward, however, we must still acquire a target business with a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amounts held in trust for our benefit (determined prior to stockholder redemptions). Even if less than 35% of the stockholders exercise their redemption rights, we may be unable to consummate a business combination if such redemption leaves us with funds less than a fair market value at least equal to 80% of the amount in the trust account (exclusive of Maxim Group LLC’s deferred underwriting compensation, including interest thereon, held in the trust account) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination, and we may be forced to find additional financing to consummate such a business combination, consummate a different business combination or liquidate. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 14 We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination and our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Pursuant to, among other documents, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of the public offering, or within 24 months after the consummation of the public offering if the extension criteria described below have been satisfied, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. We view this obligation to dissolve and liquidate as an obligation to our public stockholders and neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time periods. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of any interest. Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any plan of dissolution and liquidation that we will present to our stockholders for vote. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account from our remaining interest earned on funds in the trust account that has been released to us to fund our working capital. If we enter into either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination prior to the expiration of 18 months after the consummation of the public offering, but are unable to complete the business combination within the 18-month period, then we will have an additional six months in which to complete the business combination contemplated by the letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement. If we are unable to consummate a transaction within 24 months following the consummation of the public offering our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we comply with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro- rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, as stated above, we will make liquidating distributions to our public stockholders as soon as reasonably possible as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will seek stockholder approval to comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of: (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations are limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.), target businesses or potential target businesses. As described above, we intend to have all vendors, target businesses and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As a result of seeking those waivers, the claims that could be made against us should be significantly limited and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust should be minimal. Our Chief Executive Officer, President and Co-Chairman of our board of directors and our Chief Management Officer, Executive Vice President and a director have agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless against liabilities, claims, damages and expenses to which we may become subject as a result of any claim by any target business, prospective target business, vendor or other entity owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us or the claims of any target business or prospective target business, to the extent necessary to protect the amounts held in the trust account. In the event that our board recommends and our stockholders approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds from the liquidation of our trust account could be liable for such amounts to creditors. In addition, in the event of approval of a plan of dissolution and liquidation, we would remain obligated to enforce the above referenced indemnification agreements with our executive officers. 15 Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our dissolution and liquidation or if they seek to redeem their respective shares into cash upon a business combination that the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind to or in the trust account. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; · upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statement to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and · if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive its comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statement to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. 16 We may choose to redeem our outstanding public warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the public warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the public warrants could force the warrant holders: (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the public warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our public warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Holders of our public warrants issued in the public offering as part of our units will be able to exercise the warrants only if: (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and current and a prospectus is available for use by our public stockholders and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the public warrants following completion of the public offering to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to make every effort to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement until the expiration of the public warrants and therefore are unable to deliver registered shares, the warrants may become worthless. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the public warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrantholders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the public warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not effective and current and a prospectus is not available for use by the holders of the public warrants or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of the public warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If the public warrants become worthless, the price paid by holders for their units will thereafter relate solely to the common stock underlying the units. If and when the public warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Because the warrants sold in the private placement were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements under the federal securities laws, the holders of those warrants will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placement will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the public warrants purchased in the public offering will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. In no event will the registered holders of a warrant be entitled to receive a net-cash settlement, stock, or other consideration in lieu of physical settlement in shares of our common stock. 17 We may issue shares of our capital stock, including convertible securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Currently, there are 13,010,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option issued to the representative of the underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of the public offering to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in the public offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of the public offering to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to issue a substantial amount of notes or other debt securities, or opt to incur substantial debt, or a combination of both, to complete a business combination. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant was breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, to the extent the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. In addition to other similarly situated blank check companies, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: 18 · our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; · our obligation to redeem up to 35% of the publicly-held shares of our common stock into cash for dissenting shareholders may reduce the resources available for a business combination; and · our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to the representative of the underwriters, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating and completing a business combination. In addition, because it is possible that our business combination may entail the contemporaneous acquisition of several operating businesses and may be with several different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Specifically, the members of our current management are not obligated to remain with us subsequent to a business combination, and we cannot assure you that the resignation or retention of our current management will be included as a term or condition in any agreement with respect to a business combination. Although our management and other key personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer and President and our Chief Management Officer and Executive Vice President, may remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we employ after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of those individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate such as part of the business combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target business were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management were to negotiate to be retained by our company post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate mutually agreeable employment terms as part of any such combination, which terms would be disclosed to stockholders in any proxy statement relating to such transaction. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. 19 Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. For example, Steven M. Wasserman, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President and Co-Chairman of our board of directors, currently serves as managing partner of AMT Ventures LLC, an entity primarily engaged in public and private equity and debt investments on a principal basis as well as managing partner of AMT Capital Partners LLC, an investment banking advisory firm. In addition, Robert B. Blaha, our Chief Management Officer and Executive Vice President, currently serves as president of Human Capital Resources, a management consulting company and vice chairman of Integrity Bank & Trust, a commercial bank. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors are currently and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. Our officers and directors are currently, and may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing or potential affiliations, they have prior fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our existing stockholders, conflicts of interest could arise. Our initial stockholders either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies in the homeland security and/or defense industries. If we were to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our initial stockholders may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. Since our officers and directors own shares of our common stock and warrants which will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of common stock in our company which were issued prior to the public offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to complete a business combination. Additionally, Steven M. Wasserman, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President and Co-Chairman of our board of directors and Constantinos Tsakiris, a former director, purchased an aggregate of $3,200,000 of warrants directly from us in a private placement transaction consummated on March 21, 2007. These warrants will not be exercisable until the later of: (i) the consummation of a business combination or (ii) one year from March 23, 2007. The shares and warrants owned by our directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 20 Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not held in the trust account unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not held in the trust account unless the business combination is consummated and there are sufficient funds available for reimbursement after such consummation. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities might be depressed, and you might find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business. The net proceeds from the public offering and the private placement provided us with $57,828,431 which we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition (exclusive of Maxim Group LLC’s deferred underwriting compensation, including interest thereon, held in the trust account). We may further seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of our net assets. Although as of the date of our initial public offering prospectus we have not engaged or retained, had any discussions with, or entered into any agreements with, any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would likely only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or 21 · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different segments of a single industry. Further, our prospects for success are likely to be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Furthermore, it is possible that our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisition of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, in which case we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe, based upon the knowledge and experience of our management and board of directors in the homeland security and defense industries, that the net proceeds of the public offering and the private placement and the interest earned on the trust account will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet selected or approached any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. Furthermore, our management and board of directors have no experience with blank check companies or the search for and consummation of a business combination through a blank check company. If the net proceeds of the public offering and the private placement and the interest earned on the trust account prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in searching for a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), without securing additional financing we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination. If we were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would dissolve and liquidate the trust account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation, resulting in a loss of a portion of your investment. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors, stockholders or special advisor is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. We will depend upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and otherwise fulfill our business purposes. Before we complete a business combination, we may withdraw up to $1,825,000 of the interest income earned on the funds in the trust account, after provision for taxes, including State of Delaware franchise taxes, and repayment of $250,000 of an additional officer loan made prior to closing of the public offering by Steven M. Wasserman (such loan was to be repaid within 90 days of the closing of the public offering, but has not been repaid through December 31, 2007), to fund our working capital needs and expenses, including expenses associated with the pursuit of a business combination and, if necessary, with our potential dissolution and liquidation. We estimate that the total costs and expenses for implementing and completing our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation will be in the range of $50,000 to $75,000. This amount includes all costs and expenses related to the filing of our articles of dissolution, the winding-up of our company and the costs of a proxy statement and meeting related to the approval by our stockholders of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We have agreed with the representative of the underwriters that we may withdraw interest monthly (or weekly during the first month after the offering). We will depend upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the working capital we will need to engage in these activities. If interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to fulfill our business purpose. In such event, we would need to find other sources of funds, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or be forced to liquidate. 22 Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively beneficially own 18.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, which could permit them to effectively influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders at such time, including the approval of our initial business combination, and, following such business combination, the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In connection with the vote required for any business combination, all of our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before the public offering in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. In addition, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote any shares of common stock acquired in or following the public offering in favor of the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only one-half of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will likely continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing units in the public offering or in the aftermarket. If they do, we cannot assure you that our initial stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the public offering, we issued warrants to purchase 6,000,000 shares of common stock and, in our private placement, issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,200,000 shares of our common stock to Steven M. Wasserman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President and Co-Chairman of the board of directors and Constantinos Tsakiris, a former director. In addition, we have agreed to sell to the representative of the underwriters an option to purchase up to a total of 105,000 units that, if exercised, would result in the issuance of warrants to purchase an additional 105,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants (to the extent the warrants are exercised on a “cashless exercise” basis the number of shares to be issued by us will be reduced) could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you will experience dilution to your holdings. 23 If our initial stockholders and the holders of our private placement warrants exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to require us to register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances including approval by our public stockholders, will not be before one year from the date of consummation of a business combination. The holders of our private placement warrants are entitled to require us to register the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants at any time after the date on which we publicly announce entering into a letter of intent with respect to a business combination, although such securities remain subject to a lock-up agreement and cannot be transferred or exercised, as the case may be, until the consummation of a business combination. If our initial stockholders, including the holders of our private placement warrants, exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 4,780,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the listing. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. If we are unable to meet those stricter listing requirements, our securities would not be listed on the American Stock Exchange and might not be listed on any securities exchange. If we are unable to maintain the listing of our securities on the American Stock Exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · decreased trading liquidity and a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” with the consequences described in “If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected”; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of our securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration and regulation as an investment company; 24 · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. The proceeds held in trust will be invested only in United States “government securities,” defined as any Treasury Bill issued by the United States having a maturity of one hundred and eighty days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, so that we are not deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, as amended. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were deemed to be subject to such act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Our directors, including those serving on our audit committee, may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because all of our directors own shares of our common stock and may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than members of our audit committee and board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred, that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. The inability of the sellers of companies we may acquire to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We intend to make an effort to negotiate as a term in our acquisition agreements, that the respective sellers will agree to retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. However, there may be instances in which we decide to enter into an acquisition agreement without such seller indemnification obligations, such as in purchases of assets out of bankruptcy. These third-party claims and other liabilities include, without limitation, premium payments to funds created under applicable Federal laws, costs associated with various litigation matters, and certain environmental liabilities. The lack of seller indemnification obligations or the failure of any seller to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the acquisition agreements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, we expect that certain obligations of the sellers to indemnify us will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit, or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 25 Risks Associated with the U.S. Homeland Security and Defense Industries Risks Associated with Government Contracts We may acquire a target business that contracts directly with federal, state or local governments with respect to homeland security or defense or a combination thereof. Alternatively, our target business may act as a subcontractor, supplier or partner with another party or parties that contract with the government. Set forth below are the risk factors associated with government contracts that may impact us. Our target business could be adversely affected by significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of governments and governmental entities. The revenues of our target business may be substantially derived from contracts with federal, state and local governments and government agencies and subcontracts under federal government prime contracts and we believe that the growth of our target business may depend on our procurement of government contracts either directly or through prime contractors. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies or government budgetary constraints could directly affect the financial performance of our target business. Among the factors that could adversely affect our target business are: · changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding; · changes in government programs or applicable requirements; · the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations; · changes in political or social attitudes with respect to homeland security or defense issues; and · potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process. These and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies, or prime contractors that may use our target business as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our target business. Government contracts typically contain unfavorable provisions. Government contracts often include provisions that are not standard in private commercial transactions. For example, government contracts may: · include provisions that allow the government agency to terminate the contract without penalty under certain circumstances; · contain onerous procurement procedures; · be subject to cancellation if government funding becomes unavailable; and · subject the contracting party to suspension or ban from doing business with the government or a government agency, impose fines and penalties and subject the contracting party to criminal prosecution. Accordingly, the business, financial condition and results of operations of our target business may be adversely affected by such provisions (or other provisions) contained in government contracts. 26 Government contracts are subject to audit and cost adjustments, which could reduce revenue of our target, disrupt its business or otherwise adversely affect its results of operations. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ administrative processes and systems. These agencies review performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the contracting parties’ compliance with regulations and policies and the adequacy of internal control systems and policies, including the purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems of our target business. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, our target business may be subjected to increased government oversight and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect its ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome to a government audit could cause the actual results of our target business to differ materially from those anticipated. If an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, our target business may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the government. In addition, our target business could suffer serious harm to its reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against it. Each of these results could cause the actual results of our target business to differ materially from those anticipated. Our target business may derive significant revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. Government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process. A material portion of our target’s business in the future may be awarded through competitive bidding. The competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: · bids are made on programs before the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen difficulties and cost overruns; · substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids is made on proposals for contracts that may not be won; · it may be difficult to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract won; and · expense and delay may be encountered if competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to our target business in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government clients to increasingly purchase goods and services through indefinite deliver/indefinite quantity, or ID/IQ, contracts, GSA schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that our target business make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. In addition, the net effect of such programs may reduce the number of bidding opportunities available to our target business. Moreover, even if our target business was highly qualified to work on a particular new contract, it might not be awarded business because of the government’s policy and practice of maintaining a diverse contracting base. Our target business will likely have to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations. Our target business will likely have to comply with and will be affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how it does business with its customers and may impose added costs on its business. For example, our target business or parties with which it does business will likely be subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and all supplements (including those issued by the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense), which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts, and to the Truth-in-Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. In addition, our target business or parties with which it does business will likely be subject to industrial security regulations of Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners access to classified information. Our target business may also be liable for systems and services failures and security breaks with respect to the solutions, services, products, or other applications it sells to the government. If our target business was to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, its federal government customers could terminate or decide not to renew their contracts, and it could impair the ability of our target business to obtain new contracts. The government may reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost-accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair the ability of our target business to obtain new contracts. 27 Other Risks Associated with the U.S. Homeland Security and Defense Industries If our target business is unable to respond to the technological, legal, financial or other changes in the security industry and changes in our customers’ requirements and preferences, we will not be able to effectively compete with our competitors. If our target business is unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions, customer needs or regulatory requirements, it could lose customers. Changes in customer requirements and preferences, the introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render the existing products of the company we acquire obsolete. The success of our target business will depend, in part, on its ability to: · enhance products and services; · anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing, and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers; · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and · respond to changing regulatory requirements in a cost effective and timely manner. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. If our target business fails to introduce products with new technologies in a timely manner, or adapt its products to these new technologies, our target business will not be able to effectively compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that, even if our target business is able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies, that its products would gain acceptance among its customers. We may be unable to protect or enforce the intellectual property rights of any target businesses that we acquire. We may acquire a target business whose business is dependent upon its proprietary technology and intellectual property. Accordingly, the protection of trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets may be critical to the ability of our target business to compete with its competitors. In such a case, our target business will likely rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technology and rights that it may acquire. Despite the efforts of our target business to protect its proprietary technology and rights, our target business may not be able to prevent misappropriation of its proprietary rights or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. Our target business’s competitors may file patent applications or obtain patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with its patents. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our target business’s intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible that third parties may claim our target business has infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the competitive position and business of our target business. Depending on the target business or businesses that we acquire, we may have to protect trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. With respect to certain proprietary rights, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, of the target business or businesses that we will acquire, the target business or businesses may have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of such target business or businesses’ proprietary rights or cause harm to such target business or businesses’ reputation. 28 Our target business may face inherent product liability or other liability risks which could result in large claims against us. Our target business may face the inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other liability claims resulting from the use of its products, especially to the extent such products will be depended upon in emergency, rescue and public safety situations that may involve physical harm or even death to individuals, as well as potential loss or damage to property. Despite quality control systems and inspection, there remains an ever-present risk of an accident resulting from a faulty manufacture or maintenance of products, or an act of an agent outside the control of the companies or their suppliers. A product liability claim, or other legal claims based on theories including personal injury or wrongful death, made against our target business could adversely affect its operations and financial condition. Although there may be insurance to cover the product liability claims, the amount of coverage may not be sufficient. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our target business, if engaged in the sale of so-called “anti-terrorism technologies” could avail itself of the liability protections intended to be afforded by the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002, or the SAFETY Act. A decline in the U.S. defense budget may adversely affect the operations of our target. We may acquire a target business with material sales under contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense, including sales under subcontracts having the Department of Defense as the ultimate purchaser. The U.S. defense budget declined from time to time in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in a slowing of new program starts, program delays and program cancellations. These reductions caused most defense-related government contractors to experience declining revenues, increasing pressure on operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. While spending authorizations for defense-related programs by the government have increased in recent years, and in particular after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, these spending levels may not be sustainable, and future levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where our target business may provide limited or no products or services. A change in the U.S. Presidential Administration or in the composition of Congress could also materially affect levels of support for military expenditures. A significant decline in military expenditures could harm the operating results of our target business. Our target business may regularly employ subcontractors to assist in satisfying its contractual obligations. If these subcontractors fail to adequately perform their contractual obligations, our target business’s prime contract performance and its ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. The performance by our target business of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which our target business may rely to perform all or a portion of the work it is obligated to deliver to customers. There is a risk that our target business may have disputes with subcontractors concerning a number of issues including the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. A failure by one or more of our target business’s subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact the ability of our target business to perform its obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, such subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the government terminating our target’s contract for default. A default termination could expose our target business to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on the ability of our target business to compete for future contracts. 29 If our target business cannot obtain the necessary security clearances, it may not be able to perform classified work for the government and the revenues of our target business may suffer. Certain government contracts may require the facilities of our target business and some of its employees to maintain security clearances. If our target business loses or is unable to obtain required security clearances, the customer can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent our target business cannot obtain the required security clearances for its employees working on a particular contract, our target business may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which, if not replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm its operating results. Security breaches of sensitive government systems could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Our target business may offer products and services involving managing and protecting information involved in national security and other sensitive government functions. A security breach involving our target business’s products or services could cause serious harm to its business, could result in negative publicity and could prevent our target business from having further access to such critically sensitive information or other similarly sensitive areas for other governmental customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. Item 