D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We commenced operations in 2000 and first achieved profitability in the quarter ended March 31, 2004. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the Internet industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • maintain our leading position in the Internet search market in China; • offer new and innovative products and services to attract and retain a larger user base; • attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; • increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop user and customer loyalty; • respond to competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in the regulatory environment; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; • maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • build profitable operations in new markets such as the Japanese Internet search market; and • upgrade our technology to support increased traffic and expanded services. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We sustained losses in the past and our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results of operations. We began achieving profitability in the quarter ended March 31, 2004. We have experienced growth in recent periods in part due to the growth in China’s online marketing industry, which may not be representative of future growth or be sustainable. We cannot assure you that our historical financial information is indicative of our future operating results or future financial performance, or that our profitability will be sustained. 9 Table of Contents If the Internet and, in particular, online marketing are not broadly adopted in China, our ability to increase revenue and sustain profitability could be materially and adversely affected. The use of the Internet as a marketing channel is at an early stage in China. Internet and broadband penetration rates in China are both relatively low as compared to those in most developed countries. Many of our current and potential customers have limited experience with the Internet as a marketing channel, and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the Internet an effective channel to promote their products and services as compared to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to generate significant revenues may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties associated with developing a larger user base with demographic characteristics attractive to customers; • increased competition and potential downward pressure on online marketing prices; • higher customer acquisition costs due in part to the limited experience of small to medium-sized enterprises, or SMEs, with the Internet as a marketing channel; • failure to develop an independent and reliable means of verifying online traffic; • ineffectiveness of our online marketing delivery, tracking and reporting systems; and • lack of increase in Internet usage in China. We face significant competition and may suffer from a loss of users and customers as a result. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business, particularly from other companies that seek to provide Internet search services to users and provide online marketing services to customers. Our main competitors include U.S.-based Internet search providers providing Chinese language Internet search services such as Google and Yahoo! and Chinese Internet companies. These Chinese competitors include Internet portals such as Netease, Sina, Sohu and Tencent, other Internet search service providers such as Sougou, Yisou, Sousou, Zhongsou and Youdao, and business-to-business, or B2B, service providers such as Alibaba. We compete with these entities for both users and customers on the basis of user traffic, quality (relevance) and quantity (index size) of the search results, availability and ease of use of products and services, the number of customers, distribution channels and the number of associated third-party websites. In addition, we may face greater competition from our U.S.-based competitors as a result of, among other things, a relaxation on the foreign ownership restrictions of PRC Internet content and advertising companies, improvements in online payment systems and Internet infrastructure in China and our U.S.-based competitors’ increased business activities in China. 10 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. They also have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than we do. They may use their experience and resources to compete with us in a variety of ways, including by competing more heavily for users, customers, distributors and networks of third-party websites, investing more heavily in research and development and making acquisitions. If any of our competitors provides comparable or better Chinese language search experience, our user traffic could decline significantly. Any such decline in traffic could weaken our brand, result in loss of customers and users and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We also face competition from other types of advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio. Most large companies in China allocate, and will likely continue to allocate, most of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media and only a small portion of their budgets to online marketing and other forms of advertising media. If these companies do not devote a larger portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing services provided by us, or if our existing customers reduce the amount they spend on online marketing, our results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Additionally, we have announced plan to offer consumer-to-consumer, or C2C, services and instant messaging, or IM, services in China. As we launch these and other new products and services, we will face competition from the existing leading providers of those services, which have longer histories and more established relationships with customers and users. If we cannot compete effectively against the existing leading providers of C2C, IM and other products and services that we launch in the future, we may not be able to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base for our services and eventually achieve profitability from those services, and as a result, our future results of operations and growth prospect could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that our brand “Baidu” has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the “Baidu” brand is critical to increasing the numbers of our users, customers and Baidu Union members. As our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to remain as an Internet search leader in China, which may be increasingly difficult and expensive. Historically, we developed our user base primarily by word-of-mouth and incurred limited brand promotion expenses. Our initial public offering in 2005 has significantly enhanced our brand recognition. We are also continuing our brand promotion efforts which we started approximately three years ago, but we cannot assure you that our marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain the “Baidu” brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to continue to innovate and provide products and services to attract and retain users, we may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic levels to remain competitive. Our success depends on providing products and services that enable users to have a high-quality Internet experience. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to enhance our Internet search technology and our existing products and services and introduce additional high-quality products and services to attract and retain users and compete against our competitors. If we are unable to anticipate user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose users and customers. Our operating results may also suffer if our innovations do not respond to the needs of our users and customers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our search services. This may force us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes, our future success may be adversely affected. The online marketing industry is subject to rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies, adapt our services to evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. Our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. New marketing media could also adversely affect us. For example, the number of people accessing the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones and hand-held devices, has increased in recent years. If we are slow to develop products and technologies that are more compatible with non-PC communications devices, or if the products and services we develop for people accessing the Internet through non-PC communications devices do not meet their needs, we may not be successful in capturing a significant share of this increasingly important market for media and other services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products, services or infrastructure. If we fail to keep up with rapid technological changes to remain competitive in our rapidly evolving industry, our future success may be adversely affected. We may face intellectual property infringement claims and other related claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and may result in our inability to continue providing certain of our existing services. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, unfair competition, invasion of privacy, defamation and other violations of other parties’ rights. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries, particularly in China, are uncertain and still evolving. In addition, many parties are actively developing and seeking protection for Internet-related technologies, including seeking patent protection. There may be patents issued or pending that are held by others that cover significant aspects of our technologies, products, business methods or services. As we face increasing competition and as litigation becomes more common in China in resolving commercial disputes, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. 12 Table of Contents Our products and services link to materials in which third parties may claim ownership of trademarks, copyrights or other rights. From time to time, we may be subject to trademark or copyright infringement or related claims, in China and internationally. For example, we provide search engine facilities capable of finding and accessing links to downloadable MP3 music, videos, images and other multimedia files and other items hosted on third-party websites, including search facilities enabling our users to search for MP3 music files in various ways such as by artist, title, or via lists of most-searched-for titles and artists. Some of these contents found using our search engine facilities may be protected by copyright. In China, uncertainties still exist with respect to the legal standards as well as the judicial interpretation of such standards for determining liabilities of Internet search providers for providing links to content on third-party websites that infringe upon others’ copyrights. In December 2007, the People’s High Court of Beijing upheld a lower court’s ruling in our favor in a case originally filed against us by seven music record companies in 2005 alleging that our MP3 search services had infringed upon their copyrights. The court ruled that our service, which only provides links to online music hosted on third parties’ websites, does not constitute infringement. In the same month, however, the People’s High Court of Beijing upheld the decision by another lower court in favor of the record companies in a suit originally filed by 11 record companies against Yahoo! China, one of our competitors, in July 2006. In the Yahoo! China case, the court held that Yahoo! China was negligent in failing to remove all links to the infringing content after receiving notice from copyright holders, including those links that it “should have known” to have infringing content. Although prior court rulings in China have only limited precedential value, the ruling of the People’s High Court of Beijing in the Yahoo! China case seems to suggest that that the courts in future cases may place the burden on Internet search providers to remove not only links that have been specifically mentioned in notices of infringement from right holders, but also links they “should have known” to contain infringing content. Such an interpretation of the applicable law could subject Internet search providers like us to significant administrative burdens and litigation risks. In the United States, the legal standards for determining indirect liability for copyright infringement have been strengthened by the United States Supreme Court in the decision Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd., et al., 125 S. Ct. 2764 (2005), or Grokster. The implications of the Grokster decision for search engine services, such as our MP3 search service, are uncertain and may increase the risk of legal liability. Although we conduct our business operations outside the United States, we may be subject to U.S. copyright laws, including the legal standards established by Grokster, by virtue of our listing on the Nasdaq, the ownership of our ADSs or ordinary shares by U.S. investors, the extraterritorial application of U.S. law by U.S. courts or otherwise. Moreover, we cannot assure you that Grokster will not influence the legal standards for determining indirect copyright infringement in other jurisdictions, including China. In light of the above cases and the associated publicity, copyright owners may monitor their copyrighted materials more closely worldwide and in China and may seek to enforce their rights under theories of indirect liability, constructive knowledge of infringing content or otherwise. As a result, we may face increased risks of being subject to copyright infringement claims relating to our MP3 search service. Furthermore, this same consideration may also lead to decreased availability of third-party MP3 websites. A significant portion of our traffic is generated by users of our MP3 search service. According to Alexa.com, approximately 6% of our traffic went to mp3.baidu.com, our MP3 search platform, as of June 2, 2008. Should we face (as a result of the foregoing considerations or otherwise) a need or decision to substantially modify, limit, or terminate our MP3 search service, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Like many other Internet websites, we provide links to and host certain song lyrics on our websites which may be protected by copyright. As a result, we may be subject to copyright infringement claims. We have received notice letters from parties asserting trademark and copyright infringement claims against us. Moreover, we may be subject to administrative actions brought by the PRC State Copyright Bureau for alleged copyright infringement, and as a result may be subject to fines and other penalties and be required to discontinue infringing activities. In addition, we provide links to images of celebrities and other persons, and may face claims for misappropriation of publicity rights. To address these and other risks relating to intellectual property infringement, we may be required to change our business model and service offerings to minimize this risk, which could adversely affect our business prospects. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert resources and management attention from the operations of our business. We are currently named as a defendant in a number of copyright infringement suits in China in connection with our MP3 and movie and other search services, including new suits filed by three record companies and the Music Copyright Society of China, in the wake of the decision by the People’s High Court of Beijing in the Yahoo! China case. See “Item 8A. Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial fines and damages or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license of the rights on a timely basis could harm our business. Any intellectual property litigation and/or any negative publicity by third parties alleging our intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to patent infringement claims with respect to our P4P platform. Our technologies and business methods, including those relating to our pay-for-performance, or P4P, platform, may be subject to third-party claims or rights that limit or prevent their use. In June 2005, we applied for a patent in China for our P4P platform, but our application was rejected on the ground that it is not patentable. Overture Services Inc., or Overture, a subsidiary of Yahoo!, had applied for a patent in China relating to a P4P platform prior to our patent application in China covering a P4P platform. Based on a search conducted by an intellectual property agency in China, as of April 30, 2008, no patents relating to a P4P platform had been issued in China. The application and interpretation of China’s patent laws and the procedures and standards for granting patents in China are still evolving and involve a certain degree of uncertainty. We cannot assure you that Overture or any other party will not obtain a patent covering a P4P platform in China. If Overture obtains a patent covering a P4P platform in China, it may seek to bring a claim against us alleging our infringement of its patent rights in China. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against any such claims relating to the P4P platform used by us because Overture’s patent application in China was filed prior to ours and there may be similarities between certain claims covered by the two patent applications. 14 Table of Contents Moreover, certain U.S.-based companies, including Overture, have been granted patents in the United States relating to P4P platforms or technologies and similar business methods and related technologies. Based on publicly available information, we are aware that Overture has brought patent infringement claims in the United States against third parties, and while we believe that we are not subject to U.S. patent laws since we conduct our business operations outside of the United States, we cannot assure you that U.S. patent laws would not be applicable to our business operations, or that holders of patents relating to a P4P platform would not seek to enforce such patents against us in the United States or China. Any patent infringement claims, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and costly to us. If we were sued for patent infringement claims in the United States or China relating to our P4P platform, and we were found to infringe such patents and were not able to adopt non-infringing technologies, we may be severely limited in our ability to operate our P4P business, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. We may be subject to claims based on the content found on our websites. We have been and may continue to be subject to claims for defamation, negligence or other legal theories based on the content found on our websites. In addition to the content developed by ourselves and posted on our websites, our users are free to post information on Baidu Post Bar, Baidu Knows, Baidu Encyclopedia and other sections of our websites, and our P4P customers may create text-based descriptions and other phrases to be used as text or keywords in our search listings. Claims for defamation, negligence or other legal theories based on the content found on our websites, with or without merit, may result in diversion of the attention of our management personnel and our financial resources and negative publicity on our brand and reputation. Furthermore, if the content posted on our websites contains information that government authorities find objectionable, our websites may be shut down and we may be subject to other penalties. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and subject us to liability for information linked to our websites.” PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including online advertising publishers such as us, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content posted on our websites. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific categories of advertisements before posting, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. Our reputation could be hurt and our results of operations could be adversely affected if advertisements shown on our websites are provided to us by our advertising clients in violation of relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations, or if the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with such advertising content are not complete. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. The protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us. Moreover, unauthorized use of our technology could enable our competitors to offer products and services that are comparable to or better than ours, which could harm our business and competitive position. From time to time, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services, our business and growth prospects could be seriously harmed. In 2006 and 2007, we generated approximately 98.9% and 99.8% of our total revenues from online marketing services, respectively, a substantial majority of which was generated from our P4P services. Our online marketing customers will not continue to do business with us if their investment does not generate sales leads and ultimately consumers, or if we do not deliver their web pages in an appropriate and effective manner. Our P4P customers may discontinue their business with us at any time and for any reason as they are not subject to fixed-term contracts. Failure to retain our existing online marketing customers or attract new customers for our online marketing services could seriously harm our business and growth prospects. In addition, technologies may be developed that can block the display of our marketing products. We may not be able to retain existing customers or attract new customers whose advertisings are blocked by such technologies from display in front of the Internet users. As a result, any blocking technology could, in the future, adversely affect our operating results. Because we rely to a large extent on distributors in providing our P4P services, our failure to retain key distributors or attract additional distributors could materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, there is no assurance that our direct sales model in some key geographic markets will continue to be successful. Online marketing is at an early stage of development in China and is not as widely accepted by or available to businesses in China as in the United States. As a result, we rely to a large extent on a nationwide distribution network of third-party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our P4P customers. If our distributors do not provide quality services to our P4P customers or otherwise breach their contracts with our P4P customers, we may lose customers and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, including our key distributors, and cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to retain our key distributors or attract additional distributors on terms that are commercially reasonable, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Starting in 2005, we began to transition to using our direct sales force to serve our P4P customers in some key geographic markets, including Shanghai, Beijing and selected cities in Guangdong Province. There is no assurance that our direct sales model in those markets will continue to be successful. If we fail to maintain an adequate direct sales force, retain existing customers and continue to attract new customers in those markets, our business, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our Baidu Union members for a significant portion of our revenues. If we fail to retain existing Baidu Union members or attract additional members, our revenue growth and profitability may be adversely affected. We pay our Baidu Union members a portion of our revenues generated from click-throughs by users of our Baidu Union members’ property. We consider our Baidu Union critical to the future growth of our revenues. Some of our Baidu Union members, however, may compete with us in one or more areas of our business. Therefore, they may decide in the future to terminate their relationships with us. If our Baidu Union members decide to use a competitor’s or their own Internet search services, our user traffic may decline, which may adversely affect our revenues. If we fail to attract additional Baidu Union members, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. In addition, if we have to share a larger portion of our revenues to retain existing Baidu Union members or attract additional members, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our strategy of acquiring complementary businesses, assets and technologies may fail. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, selective strategic acquisitions of businesses, assets and technologies that complement our existing business. For example, we acquired then one of the largest distributors of our P4P services in February 2005 and certain online application platform businesses and customer lists from distributors in 2006 and 2007. We may make other acquisitions in the future if suitable opportunities arise. Acquisitions involve uncertainties and risks, including: • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • costs and difficulties of integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; and • diversion of resources and management attention. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of our ADSs and the underlying ordinary shares. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Such acquisitions may also generate significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively. We commenced operations in 2000 and have significantly expanded our operations since then. We anticipate significant continued expansion of our business as we address growth in our user and customer base and market opportunities. To manage the expansion of our business and potential growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In addition, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with other websites, Internet companies and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our expanding operations. In addition to continuing to expand our core Chinese language search and online marketing operations, we also intend to launch new services such as C2C and IM services. Expansion into new markets and adopting new business models may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter in our existing markets and operations. If we cannot successfully address these new challenges, we may not be able to recover costs we have incurred or will incur from developing and marketing new products and services, and our results of operations and growth prospect could be materially and adversely affected. Our recent expansion into the Japanese market may not be successful. We formally launched our Japanese search service in January 2008, after completing a 10-month Beta test for the service. Therefore, we only have limited experience operating in the Japanese market. Moreover, our Japan operation has incurred operating losses since its inception in December 2006, and there is no assurance when it will become profitable, if at all. Additional future losses in our Japan operation could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. The Japanese search market is highly competitive and currently is dominated by two companies, Yahoo! and Google. These companies have significantly greater financial resources, longer operating history and more experience in the Japanese search market than we do. Moreover, other local providers of competing search services may also have a substantial advantage over us in attracting users due to more established branding in Japan, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of Japanese users and their focus on the Japanese market. If we cannot compete successfully with these competitors in the Japanese language search market, our business in Japan could be adversely affected. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to compete successfully in Japan, there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a foreign operation as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; • stringent local labor laws and regulations; • longer customer payment cycles; 18 Table of Contents • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political or social unrest or economic instability; • import or export restrictions; • seasonal volatility in business activity; • risks related to government regulations or required compliance with local laws and changes in such laws and regulations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. One or more of these factors could harm our Japanese operations and consequently, could harm our overall operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. Any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and, in particular, the following risk factors, could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter: • general economic conditions in China and economic conditions specific to the Internet, Internet search and online marketing; • our ability to continue to attract users to our website; • our ability to attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products and services by us or our competitors; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; • the results of our acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses or assets; • PRC regulations or actions pertaining to activities on the Internet, including MP3 music, news, gambling, online games and other forms of entertainment; and • geopolitical events, natural disasters or epidemics such as war, threat of war, avian influenza, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or other public health epidemics. 19 Table of Contents Because of our limited operating history and our rapidly growing business, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. Our user traffic tends to be seasonal. For example, we generally experience less user traffic during public holidays and other special event periods in China. In addition, advertising and other marketing spending in China has historically been cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Our rapid growth has lessened the impact of the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As we continue to grow, we expect that the cyclicality and seasonality in our business may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party software applications that interfere with our receipt of information from, and provision of information to, our users, which may impair our users’ experience. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party malicious or unintentional software applications that make changes to our users’ computers and interfere with our products and services. These software applications may change our users’ Internet experience by hijacking queries to our websites, altering or replacing our search results, or otherwise interfering with our ability to connect with our users. The interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with Baidu.com. These software applications may be difficult or impossible to remove or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent other applications’ efforts to block or remove them. The ability to provide a superior user experience is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these software applications are unsuccessful, our reputation may be harmed. This could result in a decline in user traffic and, consequently, our revenues. Our success depends on the continuing and collaborative efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, in particular our chairman and chief executive officer, Robin Yanhong Li. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. In addition, most of our current senior executives joined us recently and have worked together only for a short period of time. As a result, it may be difficult for you to evaluate how well our senior executives will work together as a team. If any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, distributors, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us, containing confidentiality and non-competition provisions. If any disputes arise between any of our senior executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements may be enforced. 20 Table of Contents The initial option grants to many of our key personnel are fully vested. Therefore, these employees may not have sufficient financial incentive to continue to work for our company, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing key personnel in a timely manner. Many of our key personnel have become substantially vested in their initial share option grants under our 2000 Option Plan. While we often grant additional share incentives to management personnel and other key personnel after their hire dates, the initial grants are usually much larger than subsequent grants. Employees may be more likely to leave us after their initial option grant fully vests, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the option exercise price. If any member of our key personnel leaves our company, our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. We may also have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements of departing employees. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate them or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance and future success depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in our industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or additional customer requirements, our business may be harmed. Our Baidu.com website regularly serves a large number of users and customers and delivers a large number of daily page views. Our technology infrastructure is highly complex and may not provide satisfactory service in the future, especially as the number of customers using our P4P services increases. We may be required to upgrade our technology infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites, such as increasing the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or customer requirements, our users and customers may become dissatisfied with our services and switch to our competitors’ websites, which could harm our business. If we fail to detect fraudulent click-through, we could lose the confidence of our customers and our revenues could decline. We are exposed to the risk of click-through fraud on our paid search results. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks paid search results for a reason other than to view the underlying content of search results. If we find evidence of past fraudulent clicks, we may have to issue refunds to our customers. If we fail to detect fraudulent clicks or otherwise are unable to prevent this fraudulent activity, the affected customers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our online marketing services and lose confidence in the integrity of our systems. If this happens, we may be unable to retain existing customers and attract new customers for our online marketing services and our online marketing revenues could decline. In addition, affected customers may also file legal actions against us claiming that we have over-charged or failed to refund them. Any such claims or similar claims, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and costly to us and could also adversely affect our brand image and our customers’ confidence in the integrity of our systems. 21 Table of Contents The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry of China, or the MII, which will be merged into the new Ministry of Industry and Information according to a reform plan approved by the National People’s Congress on March 15, 2008. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We also rely on China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom, and China Tietong Communications Corporation, or China Tietong, to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and Internet data centers to host our servers. We do not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the fixed telecommunications networks of China Telecom, China Netcom and China Tietong, or if these companies otherwise fail to provide such services. In July 2007, due to router failures at China Netcom’s Internet data center that hosted our servers, we were unable to provide Internet search service for approximately two hours. Any unscheduled service interruption could damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom, China Netcom and China Tietong. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may harm our revenues. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our ability to provide our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could interrupt our service. Service interruptions could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand if our system is perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, war, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an Internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. 22 Table of Contents In September 2006, our Internet search services were disrupted for approximately half an hour as a result of attacks to our Baidu.com website from unknown hackers. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our websites, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we plan to take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. Our business could be adversely affected if our software contains bugs. Our online systems, including our websites, our enterprise search software and other software applications and products, could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. We regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, damage our reputation and brand name, and materially and adversely affect our business. Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, including the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination websites and impede our growth. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We have been subject to these requirements since the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in all material aspects. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 23 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations or changes in interpretations thereof may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entities, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, and their shareholders. We and our PRC subsidiaries, Baidu Online, Baidu China and Baidu Times, are considered foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law. As a result, we and our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC legal restrictions on foreign ownership of Internet and online advertising companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. PRC laws and regulations currently provide limited guidance as to whether an Internet search provider that provides search result links to domestic news websites is required to obtain an approval from the State Council News Office. In December 2006, Baidu Netcom was granted a license to provide Internet news services by the State Council News Office. If the interpretation of existing laws and regulations changes or new regulations come into effect expressly requiring Internet search providers that provide search result links to domestic news websites to obtain the Internet news license, and we fail to renew such license, we may have to remove links to news on our websites until we renew the requisite license, which could adversely affect our user traffic. PRC laws and regulations require Internet content providers, or ICPs, engaging in “Internet culture activities,” including, among other things, online dissemination of audio/video products, to obtain an Internet culture business permit from the Ministry of Culture. Baidu Netcom was granted an Internet culture business permit in April 2007. Beijing Perusal is in the process of applying for this Internet culture business permit, but we cannot assure you that Beijing Perusal may successfully obtain it. If Baidu Netcom fails to renew, or Beijing Perusal fails to obtain, the Internet culture business permit, we may have to stop hosting audio/video programs on our websites and remove links to audio/video products until we renew or obtain the requisite permits, which could adversely affect our user traffic and operating results. 24 Table of Contents According to the Rules for the Administration of Broadcasting of Audio/Video Programs through the Internet and Other Information Networks, effective on October 11, 2004, and the Rules for the Administration of Internet Audio/Video Programming Services, commonly known as “Document 56,” effective January 31, 2008, all online audio/video service providers must obtain an audio/video program transmission license issued by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT. Document 56 further requires all online audio/video service providers to be either wholly state-owned or state-controlled. At a press conference held on February 3, 2008, officials from the SARFT and the MII clarified that online audio/video service providers that already had been operating lawfully prior to the issuance of Document 56 may re-register and continue to operate without becoming state-owned or controlled, provided that such providers have not engaged in any unlawful activities. We have hosted certain audio/video programs on the Baidu Movie channel since 2006. Shortly after the issuance of Document 56, we started preparing for the application of an audio/video program transmission license. We cannot assure you that we will obtain this license in a timely manner, or at all. If we cannot obtain such license, we would have to stop hosting audio/video programs on our website, which could adversely affect our user traffic and operating results. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC government were to classify P4P services as a form of online advertising or as part of Internet content provider services, we may have to conduct our P4P business through Baidu Netcom, which would increase our effective tax rate, and we might be subject to sanctions and required to pay delinquent taxes. PRC laws and regulations do not currently classify P4P as a form of online advertising or as part of ICP services requiring an ICP license. We conduct our P4P business through our subsidiaries in the PRC, none of which has the qualification to operate online advertising business or holds an ICP license. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not classify P4P as a form of online advertising or as part of ICP services in the future. If new regulations characterize P4P as a form of online advertising or as part of ICP services, we may have to conduct our P4P business through Baidu Netcom, which is qualified to operate online advertising business and holds an ICP license. This would increase our consolidated effective tax rate for two reasons. First, advertising revenues generated by Baidu Netcom are subject to a 3% construction fee for culture undertakings in addition to the 5% business tax. Second, Baidu Netcom is currently subject to a 25% enterprise income tax rate, as compared to the lower preferential enterprise income tax rates that our PRC subsidiaries are subject to as of the date of this annual report. See “Item 5A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Taxation” for more information on PRC business and enterprise income tax as applicable to our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC. Moreover, if the change in classification of P4P were to be retroactively applied, we might be subject to sanctions, including payment of delinquent taxes and fines. In addition, the classification of P4P as a form of online advertising could subject us to an obligation to monitor the content of listings of our P4P customers on our websites and the associated risks. See “—Risks Related to Our Businesses—We may be subject to claims based on the content found on our websites.” Any change in the classification of P4P by the PRC government may significantly disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 25 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of Internet business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets such as our website. The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the Internet industry. These Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be violations of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the Internet industry include, but are not limited to, the following: • We only have contractual control over our websites. We do not own the websites due to the restriction of foreign investment in businesses providing value-added telecommunication services in China, including online information services. • There are uncertainties relating to the regulation of the Internet business in China, including evolving licensing practices. This means that permits, licenses or operations at some of our companies may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. • Certain PRC government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of promulgating new laws and regulations that will regulate Internet activities. The areas of regulation may include online advertising, online news displaying online audio-video program broadcasting and the provision of culture-related information over the Internet. Other aspects of our online operations may be regulated in the future. If our operations do not comply with these new regulations at the time they become effective, we could be subject to penalties. In July 2006, the MII issued the Notice of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services, or the July 2006 Notice. The July 2006 Notice prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to the July 2006 Notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The July 2006 Notice also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. 26 Table of Contents In October 2006, the Telecommunication Management Bureau of the MII issued a notice reiterating its requirements as described in the July 2006 Notice. In particular, this notice requires MII local authorities in charge of value-added telecommunications services to ensure that existing ICP license holders conduct a self-assessment of their compliance with the July 2006 Notice and submit status reports to the MII before November 1, 2006. This notice further requires that any ICP license holder which has identified any non-compliance with the July 2006 Notice during its self-assessment must report its self-correction plan to the Telecommunication Management Bureau of the MII before November 20, 2006. Baidu Netcom, our PRC affiliated entity that holds the ICP license necessary to conduct our business in China, received a letter from the MII requiring self-assessment and responded timely. In order to comply with the July 2006 Notice, we have transferred certain domain names primarily used in our business to Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal, respectively. In addition, we are in the process of transferring certain trademarks, including pending trademark applications made by Baidu Online, to Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, respectively. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies, including the July 2006 Notice issued by the MII, have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. In order to comply with PRC laws and regulations limiting foreign ownership of Internet and online advertising businesses, we conduct our ICP and online advertising businesses through our consolidated affiliated entities in China by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in Internet and online advertising businesses. Accordingly, we operate our websites and our online advertising business in China through Baidu Netcom, a company wholly-owned by our chairman, chief executive officer and co-founder Robin Yanhong Li and our co-founder Eric Yong Xu, Beijing Perusal, a company wholly-owned by two individuals designated by our company. In February 2008, we assisted in establishing BaiduPay, a company wholly-owned by Baidu Netcom and an individual designated by our company, which will operate an online payment platform. All of the individual shareholders of Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay are PRC citizens. Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay hold the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our websites and our online advertising business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal, BaiduPay and their individual shareholders that allow us to substantially control Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. 27 Table of Contents Although we believe we comply with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our websites, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China and their individual shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since PRC law restricts foreign equity ownership in Internet and online advertising companies in China, we operate our ICP and online advertising businesses through our consolidated affiliated entities in China, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay. We have no equity ownership interest in any of these entities and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal or BaiduPay could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to maintain our websites despite its contractual obligation to do so. If they fail to perform under their respective agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of their respective individual shareholders would always act in our best interests. The new PRC Property Rights Law may affect the perfection of the pledge in our equity pledge agreements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their individual shareholders. Under the equity pledge agreements among Baidu Online and our consolidated affiliated entities, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, and their respective individual shareholders, the individual shareholders of Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay have pledged all of their equity interests therein to Baidu Online by recording the pledge on the shareholder registers of the respective entities. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective as of October 1, 2007, a pledge is not effective without being registered with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce. It remains unclear whether under the PRC Property Rights Law, Baidu Netcom and Beijing Perusal are required to register the pledge created before October 1, 2007. To our knowledge, no application for registration of share pledge has been processed by the local administration for industry and commerce in Beijing, due to a lack of registration procedures. Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay will make efforts to register the equity pledge when the local administration for industry and commerce implements registration procedures. We cannot assure you that they will be able to register the pledge. If they are unable to do so, the pledges may be deemed ineffective under the PRC Property Rights Law. If any individual shareholder of Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal or BaiduPay breaches his or her obligations under the agreement with Baidu Online, there is a risk that Baidu Online may not be able to successfully enforce the pledge and would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce its contractual rights. 28 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China may result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a result of our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements between Baidu Online and each of our consolidated affiliated entities in China, we are effectively subject to the 5% PRC business tax on both revenues generated by Baidu Netcom’s, Beijing Perusal’s and BaiduPay’s operations in China and revenues derived from Baidu Online’s contractual arrangements with these entities. Moreover, we would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between Baidu Online and these entities were not on an arm’s length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing. As a result, the PRC tax authorities could request that Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by: • increasing Baidu Netcom’s, Beijing Perusal’s and BaiduPay’s tax expenses without reducing Baidu Online’s tax expenses, which could subject Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay to late payment fees and other penalties for under-payment of taxes; and • resulting in Baidu Online’s loss of its preferential tax treatment. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law became effective on January 1, 2008. This new tax law specifies special adjustments to taxation. In particular, an enterprise must submit its annual tax return together with a report on transactions with its affiliates to the tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arms-length principles. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income tax, business tax and other taxes in many provinces and cities in China and our tax structure is subject to review by various local tax authorities. The determination of our provision for income tax and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate decisions by the relevant tax authorities may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. The principal shareholder of Baidu Netcom has potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Robin Yanhong Li, our chairman and chief executive officer, is also the principal shareholder of Baidu Netcom. Conflicts of interests between his duties to our company and Baidu Netcom may arise. As Mr. Li is a director and executive officer of our company, he has a duty of loyalty and care to us under Cayman Islands law when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and Baidu Netcom. Additionally, Mr. Li has executed an irrevocable power of attorney to appoint the individual designated by us to be his attorney-in-fact to vote on his behalf on all Baidu Netcom matters requiring shareholder approval. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Li will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Li could violate his employment agreement with us or his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between us and Mr. Li, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could be expensive, time-consuming and result in the disruption of our business. 29 Table of Contents Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. Our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities own more than a majority of our voting power due to our dual-class ordinary share structure. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of voting power may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. We may be unable to collect long-term loans to the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities in China. As of March 31, 2008, we had made long-term loans in an aggregate principal amount of RMB100.0 million (US$13.7 million), RMB1.0 million (US$0.1 million) and RMB9.0 million (US$1.2 million) to the individual shareholders of Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, respectively. We extended these loans to enable the shareholders to fund the initial capitalization of Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, respectively, and in the case of Baidu Netcom, a subsequent increase in its registered capital. As of the date of this annual report, all of the registered capital of our consolidated affiliated entities in China has been fully funded. We may in the future provide additional loans to the individual shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities in China in connection with any increase in their capitalization to the extent necessary and permissible under applicable law. Our ability to ultimately collect these loans will depend on the profitability of these consolidated affiliated entities and their operational needs, which are uncertain. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Most of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and subject us to liability for information linked to our website. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the website. In addition, the MII has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws and regulations prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider to block any Internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. Furthermore, we are required to report any suspicious content to relevant governmental authorities, and to undergo computer security inspections. If we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, our websites may be shut down and our business and ICP licenses may be revoked. In addition, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services must apply for specific approval from relevant authorities. In June 2002, we were required to shut down our server for one week and pay an RMB10,000 fine because our search results contained certain content that the public security authorities considered socially harmful. Although we attempt to monitor the content in our search results and on our online communities such as Baidu Post Bar, we are not able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our Baidu Post Bar message boards or our other online communities by our users. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites, which may reduce our user traffic and have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. 31 Table of Contents PRC government authorities may deem certain third-party websites unlawful and could require us to remove links to such websites, which may reduce our user traffic and have a material adverse effect on our business. The Internet industry in China, including the operation of online activities, is extensively regulated by the PRC government. Various PRC government authorities such as the State Council, the MII, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the General Administration of Press and Publication and the Ministry of Public Security are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and online activities. Substantial uncertainties exist regarding the potential impact of current and future PRC laws and regulations on Internet search providers. We are not able to control or restrict the operation of third-party websites linked to or accessible through our websites. If third-party websites linked to or accessible through our websites operate unlawful activities such as online gambling on their websites, PRC regulatory authorities may require us to report such unlawful activities to relevant authorities and to remove the links to such websites, or they may suspend or shut down the operation of such websites. PRC regulatory authorities may also temporarily block access to certain websites for a period of time for reasons beyond our control. Any of these actions may reduce our user traffic and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to potential liabilities for providing links to third-party websites that operate unlawful activities. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict our ability to maintain or increase user traffic to our website. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation of Internet cafes. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafes have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafes. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafes, may slow down the growth of Internet cafes. In June 2002, the Ministry of Culture, together with other government authorities, issued a joint notice, and in February 2004, the SAIC issued another notice, suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses. In May 2007, the SAIC reiterated its position not to register any new Internet cafe in 2007. So long as Internet cafes are one of the primary venues for our users to access our websites, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafes in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase user traffic to our websites. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law could increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Baidu Online, Baidu Times and Baidu China or impose PRC withholding tax on dividends from such PRC operating subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. Pursuant to the applicable PRC tax laws and regulations effective before January 1, 2008, foreign-invested enterprises established in China were generally subject to a state and local enterprise income tax, or EIT, at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively. An enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” and located in a “national high-tech development zone” was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and an exemption from the EIT for two years starting from its first profitable year. In addition, an enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” located in the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and would enjoy an exemption from the EIT for the first three years of its establishment and a 50% reduction of the EIT for the succeeding three years. 32 Table of Contents Under the applicable PRC tax laws and regulations effective before January 1, 2008, Baidu Online was qualified as a high and new technology enterprise. It was thus entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15%. In 2006, Baidu Online obtained an “advanced technology enterprise” certificate from the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Commerce, which qualified Baidu Online for a 10% EIT rate from 2006 to 2008. Similarly, Baidu Times, which was also a certified foreign-invested high and new technology enterprise located in Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park (part of the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone), was entitled to a three-year exemption from EIT from 2006 to 2008 and a 7.5% EIT rate for another three years from 2009 to 2011, followed by a 15% tax rate so long as it continued to qualify as a high and new technology enterprise. Baidu China was registered in the Shanghai Pudong New Area and thus was subject to a 15% EIT rate. Moreover, Baidu China was granted “software enterprise” status by the Shanghai Municipal Information Commission in 2006 and thus was entitled to a full exemption from EIT from 2006 to 2007 and a 50% tax reduction from 2008 to 2010. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Council issued the Implementation Rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementation Rules, which also became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice on Implementation of Enterprise Income Tax Transition Preferential Policy under the EIT Law, or the Transition Preferential Policy Circular, which became effective simultaneously with the EIT Law. According to the EIT Law, as further clarified by the Implementation Rules and the Transition Preferential Policy Circular, FIEs and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. The EIT rate of enterprises established before March 16, 2007 that were eligible for preferential tax treatment according to then effective tax laws and regulations will gradually transition to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2013. In addition, certain enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law if they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State,” subject to certain general factors described therein. Under the Notice on Several Preferential Policies in Respect of Enterprise Income Tax promulgated jointly by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on February 22, 2008, or the Caishui No. 1 Notice, other than the preferential EIT treatments specified under the EIT Law, the Implementation Rules and certain other tax regulations, all preferential EIT treatments granted prior to January 1, 2008 are eliminated. Accordingly, the preferential tax treatments granted to Baidu Online as an “advanced technology enterprise” have been eliminated as of January 1, 2008. However, there is still uncertainty as to how software enterprises established before January 1, 2008 will be treated under the EIT Law and related regulations. We are waiting for further official clarifications to determine Baidu China’s tax status. On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Administrative Measures on the Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises, or the Recognition Rules, effective on January 1, 2008. According to the Recognition Rules, the provincial counterparts of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation shall jointly determine whether an enterprise is qualified as a high and new technology enterprise under the EIT Law. In making such determination, these government agencies shall consider, among other factors, ownership of core technology, whether the products or services fall within the scope of high and new technology strongly supported by the state as specified in the Recognition Rules, the ratios of technical personnel and research and development (R&D) personnel to total personnel, the ratio of R&D expenditures to annual sales revenues, the ratio of revenues attributed to high and new technology products or services to total revenues, and other measures that will be set forth in a guidance to be issued later. We are waiting for additional official guidance to determine whether Baidu Online and Baidu Times will continue to be qualified as a high and new technology enterprise under the EIT Law and therefore entitled to the preferential tax rate and, in the case of Baidu Times, the remaining tax holidays granted under the previously effective tax laws and regulations. Meanwhile, in accordance with the Notice on Prepayment of the Enterprise Income Tax issued by the State Administration of Taxation on January 30, 2008, Baidu Online has started making prepayment of the EIT at the rate of 25%. 33 Table of Contents In addition, under the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, dividends, interests, rent or royalties payable by an FIE, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors, and proceeds of the disposition of assets (subsequent to deduction of the net value of such assets) by such foreign enterprise investor, shall be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless such foreign enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding. The Caishui No. 1 Notice issued on February 22, 2008 further clarifies that undistributed profits earned by FIEs prior to January 1, 2008 will be exempted from any withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where our wholly-owned subsidiary Baidu Holdings, which is the sole shareholder of our PRC subsidiary Baidu Online, is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Baidu Hong Kong, our wholly-owned subsidiary and the sole shareholder of our PRC subsidiaries Baidu China and Baidu Times, was incorporated in Hong Kong, which has a tax treaty with China that provides for a lower withholding tax rate of 5%. An increase in Baidu Online’s, Baidu Times’ or Baidu China’s EIT rate pursuant to the new PRC tax law or the imposition of PRC withholding tax on dividends from such PRC operating subsidiaries would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law, which could subject us to PRC taxation on our global income, and which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and is subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” If we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, we may be subject to the EIT at 25% on our global income, except that the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be exempt from the EIT to the extent such dividends are deemed as “dividends among qualified PRC resident enterprises.” If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% EIT on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. 34 Table of Contents Under the EIT Law, dividends payable by us and gains on the disposition of our shares or ADSs may be subject to PRC taxation. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law, our shareholders and ADS holders who are deemed non-resident enterprises may be subject to the EIT at the rate of 10% upon the dividends payable by us or upon any gains realized from the transfer of our shares or ADSs, if such income is deemed derived from China, provided that (i) such foreign enterprise investor has no establishment or premises in China, or (ii) it has establishment or premises in China but its income derived from China has no real connection with such establishment or premises. If we were required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders, or if any gains realized from the transfer of our shares or ADSs by our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and ADS holders were subject to the EIT, your investment in our shares or ADSs would be materially and adversely affected. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries and affiliated entities. As a result of our holding company structure, we currently rely entirely on dividends payments from our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our consolidated affiliated entities, Baidu Netcom, Beijing Perusal and BaiduPay, under various service and other contractual arrangements. However, PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “—Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if our subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or any of our subsidiaries in China is unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 35 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process upon, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against, us or our management. We conduct most of our operations in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including SAFE Circular No. 75 issued in November 2005 and its implementation rule issued in May 2007, that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment in an overseas special purpose vehicles, or SPV, for the purposes of overseas equity financing activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. 36 Table of Contents Under these SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in an SPV are required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an SPV is required to update the previously filed registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that SPV, to reflect any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their SAFE registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable SAFE regulations. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their SPV, and the SPV may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We have notified shareholders of our company whom we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE regulations described above. We are aware that our major shareholders who are PRC residents have registered with the relevant local SAFE branch. We, however, cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations described above will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under this Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to these regulations. We have designated our PRC subsidiary Baidu Online to handle the registration and other procedures required by the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations in the future, we or our PRC optionees and their local employers may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. 37 Table of Contents A regulation adopted in August 2006 establishes more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOC, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. Among other things, the new regulations established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOC be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may grow our business in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in the PRC. Complying with the requirements of the new regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOC, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 15.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and June 4, 2008. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of the RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With this increased floating range, the RMB’s value may appreciate or depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar in the long term. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We currently rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into RMB, as RMB is our reporting currency. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings, which in turn could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. 38 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian influenza, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian influenza in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. Any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response to an epidemic or outbreak may require temporary closure of Internet cafes, which is where many users access our websites, or of our offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian influenza, SARS or any other epidemic. We may incur substantial administrative and staffing cost due to the promulgation of the new labor contract law. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law contains substantial provisions with a view to improve job security and to protect the rights and interests of employees. In order to fully comply with the legal requirements under the Labor Contract Law, we may incur substantial administrative and staffing cost. Risks Related to Our ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from August 5, 2005, the first day on which our ADSs were listed on the Nasdaq, until June 4, 2008, the trading prices of our ADSs ranged from $44.44 to $429.19 per ADS and the closing sale price on June 4, 2008 was $344.52 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; 39 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in Internet search and online marketing markets; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet search or Internet companies that are perceived to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies and companies with operation in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, most of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ADSs, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. 40 Table of Contents You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct most of our operations in China and all of our officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct most of our operations in China through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 41 Table of Contents Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share. We issued Class A ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in our initial public offering. Certain of our major shareholders, including our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, Robin Yanhong Li, who acquired our shares prior to our initial public offering, hold our Class B ordinary shares. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by the holder thereof. Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares by a holder thereof to any person or entity which is not an affiliate of such holder, such Class B ordinary shares shall be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. In addition, if at any time Robin Yanhong Li and his affiliates collectively own less than 5% of the total number of the issued and outstanding Class B ordinary shares, each issued and outstanding Class B ordinary share shall be automatically and immediately converted into one share of Class A ordinary share, and we shall not issue any Class B ordinary shares thereafter. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, certain shareholders have significant voting power over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. 42 Table of Contents Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association include certain provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, and deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions, including the following provisions: • A dual-class ordinary share structure. • Our board of directors has the authority, without approval by the shareholders, to issue up to a total of 10,000,000 preferred shares in one or more series. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each such series and may fix the designations, preferences, powers and other rights of the shares of a series of preferred shares. • Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the increase of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents shareholders from having the sole right to fill vacancies on our board of directors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequence to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of the ADSs and our ordinary shares, the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year) and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The future value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. See “Item 10.E Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 43 Table of Contents 