Item 1A. Risk Factors. The current economic downturn coupled with turmoil and uncertainty in the financial markets may adversely impact the Company’s earnings and our ability to successfully execute our business plan. The current economic downturn may adversely impact the financial condition of the households and businesses comprising the Bank’s loan customers. Such a deteriorating financial condition could arise from loss of employment or business revenue exacerbated by a reduction in the value of real estate collateralizing customers’ loans with the Bank. As a consequence, the Bank may experience an increase in nonperforming loans which will negatively impact earnings through reduced collections of interest income coupled with possible increases in the provision for loan losses and associated charge offs. Additionally, the Bank’s ability to originate new loans in accordance with its business plan goals and objectives may be diminished as a result of these same factors. Moreover, the general level of uncertainty in the marketplace – particularly concerning counterparty risk – has greatly diminished the sources of funding readily available to many large financial institutions. Consequently, such institutions are placing greater emphasis on their retail deposit channel to attract funding thereby placing upward pressure on retail deposit rates in the marketplace. As a result, despite the recent reduction in overall market interest rates, the Bank’s cost of deposits may remain stable or increase while its yield on earning assets is reduced. This condition would reduce the Company’s net interest spread and margin and its earnings in future periods. Finally, given the increasing number of insured financial institution failures, we expect that the Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums may increase significantly during fiscal 2009 which would result in an increase to our operating expenses and a reduction in our earnings. Our strategic plan calls for us to diversify our loan portfolio with increased emphasis on commercial lending which may increase our operating expenses in the future and result in a higher degree of credit risk within our loan portfolio. Commercial loans include multi-family and non-residential mortgage loans, construction loans and business loans. At September 30, 2008, our loan portfolio included commercial loans totaling $181.8 million, or 38.0 % of our loans receivable, net. It is our intention to increase our origination of multi-family and non-residential mortgage loans and business loans. As part of our plan to grow and diversify the loan mix, we may expand our commercial lending business unit and may hire additional commercial lenders over the next several years. We would expect our compensation and benefit expenses to increase significantly if we hire these lenders and associated support staff. By contrast, we expect that our strategic emphasis on construction lending will diminish during fiscal 2009 for the reasons noted earlier. Commercial loans are generally considered to involve a higher degree of credit risk than long-term financing of owner-occupied residential properties. The likelihood that these loans will not be repaid or will be late in paying is generally greater than with residential loans. Furthermore, it may take some time for us to attract lending business sufficient to offset the increased compensation and benefit expenses that result from hiring the additional personnel we will need. There can be no assurance that the lenders we hire will successfully grow our loan portfolio. 32 Our strategic plan calls for us to expand our franchise through de novo branching. New branches are expected to increase our operating expenses and reduce our net income until they achieve profitability which can not be assured. Our current business plan calls for us to open up to three de novo branches over approximately the next five years. Having opened three full service branches located in Verona, Nutley and Clifton, New Jersey during fiscal 2007, the Company did not open additional de novo deposit branches during fiscal 2008. Rather, the Company directed significant strategic effort during fiscal 2008 toward achieving and enhancing profitability within each of these three branches. Based on the Company’s internal branch profitability model, the Verona branch, which opened in December 2006, achieved profitability during the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and continued to operate profitably during the remainder of fiscal 2008. The Bank’s Nutley branch, which opened in May 2007, achieved quarterly profitability during the most recent quarter ended September 30, 2008. The quarterly operating loss for the Clifton branch, which opened in August 2007, decreased during the quarter ended September 30, 2008 compared with prior quarters. The Company expects the Clifton branch to achieve profitability during fiscal 2009. While the Company currently has no commitments to open additional de novo deposit branches during the next fiscal year, the Company would consider additional branching projects during fiscal 2009 if appropriate opportunities were to arise. Costs for land purchase and branch construction will adversely impact earnings going forward. We currently estimate that total land, construction and equipment costs could average as much as $3.1 million per branch and could be higher. The expenses associated with opening new offices, in addition to the personnel and operating costs that we will have once these offices are open, will significantly increase noninterest expenses. Because these expenses are in fixed assets, they will not result in any additional earnings but will result in a substantial increase in depreciation and occupancy expense. There can be no assurance when, or if, these new offices will open or that we will be successful in executing this part of the business plan. If we are able to locate and obtain suitable sites for these branches, there is no guarantee that these de novo branches will be profitable. We expect that changes in interest rates may have a significant, adverse impact on our net interest income. The income from our assets and the cost of our liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: (a) the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets such as loans and securities; and (b) the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and amounts we borrow. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. We, like many savings institutions, have liabilities that generally have shorter contractual maturities or different repricing characteristics than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey and the New York metropolitan area. The current downturn in economic conditions in the state and the surrounding region could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey and the New York metropolitan area. The current decline in the regional economy could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy and real estate values may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. 33 Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and more difficult to retain deposits. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in slower growth or reduction of our total deposits or having to pay more for our deposits. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation could have a material impact on us and our operations. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 