Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and natural gas prices. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and in particular, the level of exploration, development and production expenditures of our customers. Oil and natural gas prices and our customers’ expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. In particular, changes in the price of natural gas materially affect our operations because drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico is primarily focused on developing and producing natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile. Since mid-December 2005, commodity prices have decreased, particularly natural gas prices, which have declined sharply. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • the demand for oil and natural gas in the United States and elsewhere; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • economic and weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • expectations regarding future prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; and • the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for drilling services. Any reduction in the demand for drilling and liftboat services may materially erode dayrates and utilization rates for our units, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is concentrated in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where market conditions are highly cyclical and subject to rapid change. The mature nature of this region could result in less drilling activity in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs or liftboats being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to idle rigs or liftboats or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, contracts are generally short term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to upward or downward changes in prices. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, changes in market conditions can quickly affect our business. In addition, customers generally have the right to terminate our contracts with little or no notice, and without penalty. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, we expect our results of operations to be volatile. In addition, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and in particular the shallow-water region of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average size of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico discoveries has declined significantly since the early 1990s. In addition, the amount of natural gas production in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico has declined over the last decade. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduced demand for our services. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Dayrates also depend on the supply of vessels. Generally, excess capacity puts downward pressure on dayrates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed vessels enter the market, when vessels are mobilized between market areas and when non-marketed vessels are re-activated. Many other companies in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. In addition, the competitive environment has intensified as recent mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Finally, competition among shallow-water drilling and marine service providers is also affected by each provider’s reputation for safety and quality. We may not be 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig or liftboat personnel. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of rig or liftboat personnel as a result of our drilling and liftboat operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our drilling and liftboat operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Tropical storms, hurricanes and other severe weather prevalent in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, such as Hurricane Rita in September 2005, Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 and Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. During such severe storms, our liftboats typically leave location and cease to earn a full dayrate. Under U.S. Coast Guard guidelines, the liftboats cannot return to work until the weather improves and seas are less than five feet. In August 2005, two of our jackup rigs, Rig 21 and Rig 25, sustained damage during Hurricane Katrina. Rig 25 is severely damaged, and we expect it to be declared a constructive total loss under our insurance policies. Rig 21 suffered extensive damage to its mat as a result of the storm, and we expect that the rig will not be available for service until later in the first quarter of 2006. In addition, our liftboats were required to leave location during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and did not earn any dayrate for an average of five days per vessel. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. As a result of a number of recent catastrophic events like the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, we anticipate that our insurance costs will increase significantly after the end of our current policy period in July 2006. It is likely that insurers will require higher retention levels and will limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that our rigs or liftboats experience damage. If storm activity in 2006 is as severe as it was in 2005, insurance underwriters may no longer insure U.S. Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. A number of our customers that produce oil and natural gas have previously maintained business interruption insurance for their production. This insurance may cease to be available in the future, which could adversely impact our customers’ business prospects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduce demand for our services. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our rigs or liftboats, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A single customer accounts for a significant portion of our revenues, the loss of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a single major integrated energy company. Chevron Corporation represented approximately 33.1% and 28.6% of our drilling services revenues for the period from inception to December 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Chevron represented approximately 40.1% and 33.6% of our domestic marine services revenues for the period from inception to December 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if Chevron curtails its activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or Nigeria, terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. Re-activation of non-marketed rigs or liftboats, mobilization of rigs or liftboats back to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or new construction of rigs or liftboats could result in excess supply in the region, and our dayrates and utilization could be reduced. If market conditions continue to improve, inactive rigs and liftboats that are not currently being marketed could be reactivated to meet an increase in demand, and the recent hurricanes have resulted in the reactivation of a number of shallow-water rigs that have been cold-stacked for the past several years. Improved market conditions, particularly relative to other markets, could also lead to jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats being moved into the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or could lead to increased construction and upgrade programs by our competitors. Some of our competitors have already announced plans to upgrade existing equipment or build additional jackup rigs with higher specifications than our rigs. According to ODS-Petrodata, as of February 2006, 51 jackup rigs had been ordered by industry participants, national oil companies and financial investors for delivery through 2009. As of that date, there also were seven liftboats under construction in the United States that are targeted for use in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. A significant increase in the supply of jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units or liftboats could adversely affect both our utilization and dayrates. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We make upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, including when we acquire units or when repairs or upgrades are required by law, in response to an inspection by a governmental authority or when a unit is damaged. We are currently refurbishing Rig 16, a rig that we recently acquired and that has not worked for approximately six years. We also are refurbishing the recently acquired Rig 26 and Rig 31. We expect to spend a total of approximately $44.3 million in refurbishment costs for Rig 16, Rig 26 and Rig 31 prior to placing the rigs into service. In addition, Rig 21, which suffered extensive damage to its mat as a result of Hurricane Katrina, was moved into a shipyard to repair the damage it sustained. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for key equipment and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen engineering problems; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Significant cost overruns or delays would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade and refurbishment projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures. Our jackup rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification rigs, which may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. Many of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and therefore have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Because a majority of our rigs were designed specifically for drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico, our ability to move them to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deepwater drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification jackup rigs, semisubmersible drilling rigs or drillships. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a decline in demand for lower specification jackup rigs like ours, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results, are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. The acquisition of assets or businesses that are complementary to our drilling and liftboat operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our rigs and liftboats. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico increases, 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages and difficulty in staffing our units. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. We will need to hire additional rig-based employees in connection with the commencement of operations of Rig 16, Rig 26 and Rig 31. Moreover, our labor costs increased significantly in 2005, and we anticipate that this trend will continue in 2006. Although our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Governmental laws and regulations may add to our costs or limit drilling activity and liftboat operations. Our operations are affected in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. The industries in which we operate are dependent on demand for services from the oil and natural gas industry and, accordingly, are also affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board and the United States Customs and Border Protection Service, as well as private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and the applicable regulations and standards of those authorities and organizations. Moreover, the cost of compliance could be higher than anticipated. Similarly, our international operations are subject to certain international conventions and the laws, regulations and standards of other foreign countries in which we operate. It is also possible that these conventions, laws, regulations and standards may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or limit our activities. In addition, as our vessels age, the costs of drydocking the vessels in order to comply with government laws and regulations and to maintain their class certifications are expected to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with or a breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to regulations that require us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals, control the discharge of materials into the environment, require the removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. For example, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats in navigable U.S. waters and some offshore areas, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills or other unauthorized discharges of chemicals or wastes resulting from those operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Some of these laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new requirements, both in U.S. waters and internationally, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the provisions of U.S. law on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified, repealed or waived. We are subject to U.S. federal laws that restrict maritime transportation, including liftboat services, between points in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States and owned and manned by U.S. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements citizens. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our liftboats in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our liftboats, fines or forfeiture of the liftboats. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal these restrictions to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades currently reserved for U.S.-flag vessels under the federal laws. We believe that interest groups may continue efforts to modify or repeal these laws currently benefiting U.S.-flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in increased competition, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We will be subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties as we expand our international operations. An element of our business strategy is to continue to expand into international oil and natural gas producing areas such as West Africa, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, including India. We currently own four liftboats operating offshore Nigeria, and we are marketing three of our jackup rigs to work in international markets following completion of refurbishment and upgrade projects on the rigs. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees; • increased operating costs; • modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • restrictions on currency repatriations; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. As our international operations expand, the exposure to these risks will increase. Our financial condition and results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular country or region in which we are active. Our debt could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make it difficult to meet our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we have total outstanding debt of approximately $94.7 million. This debt represents approximately 30.5% of our total capitalization. We have up to $25 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility, under which we may continue to borrow to fund working capital or other needs in the near term. Our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because our borrowings generally are at variable rates of interest, which would result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and • we could be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business that would leave us less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from further equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. Our senior secured credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our senior secured credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to: • make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends; • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • restrict dividend or other payments by our subsidiaries to us; • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • make capital expenditures. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related debt. If a default were to occur, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that debt. Risks Related to Our Limited Operating History Because we have a limited operating history and we have not provided three years of audited financial statements, you may not be able to evaluate our current business and future earnings prospects accurately. We were formed in July 2004 to provide drilling and liftboat services to the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. As a result, we have limited operating history upon which you can base an evaluation of our current business and our future earnings prospects. In addition, this annual report includes audited financial statements only as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and as of and for the period from inception to December 31, 2004. We have acquired our fleet of jackup rigs and liftboats in a number of separate asset acquisitions since our formation in July 2004. We 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements have not completed or provided in this annual report any stand-alone pre-acquisition financial statements for the assets we acquired in these transactions. As a result, and given our recent date of formation, we have not provided in this annual report three years of audited financial statements that normally would be included in an annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Principal Stockholders, the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our two largest stockholders and their affiliates, to the extent they vote together, will control the outcome of stockholder voting. LR Hercules Holdings, LP (“Lime Rock”) holds 36.4% of the outstanding common stock of our company, and Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and its affiliates (“Greenhill”) holds 18.2% of the outstanding common stock of our company. Accordingly, to the extent Lime Rock and Greenhill vote together, they will be able to control the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors, adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and approval of transactions involving a change of control. In addition, as a result of its ownership, Lime Rock will be able to exert significant control over us and may be able effectively to control the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote. Other investors, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. Our interests may conflict with those of Lime Rock, Greenhill and their affiliates with respect to our past and ongoing business relationships, and because of their ownership, we may not be able to resolve these conflicts on terms commensurate with those possible in arms-length transactions. Our interests may conflict with those of Lime Rock, Greenhill and their affiliates in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • the timing and manner of any sales or distributions by Lime Rock or Greenhill of all or any portion of their ownership interests in us; • business opportunities that may be presented to Lime Rock or Greenhill and to our directors associated with Lime Rock or Greenhill; • competition between those stockholders and us within the same lines of business; and • our dividend policy. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with Lime Rock, Greenhill and their affiliates, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We limit foreign ownership of our company, which could reduce the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation limits the percentage of outstanding common stock and other classes of capital stock that can be owned by non-United States citizens within the meaning of statutes relating to the ownership of U.S.-flagged vessels. Applying the statutory requirements applicable today, our certificate of incorporation provides that no more than 20% of our outstanding common stock may be owned by non-United States citizens and establishes mechanisms to maintain compliance with these requirements. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock because holders may be unable to transfer our common stock to non-United States citizens. Any attempted or purported transfer of our common stock in violation of these restrictions will be ineffective to transfer such common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of such common stock. Restrictions on the percentage ownership of our outstanding capital stock by non-U.S. citizens may subject the shares held by such non-U.S. citizens to restrictions, limitations and redemption. Our certificate of incorporation provides that any transfer, or attempted or purported transfer, of any shares of our capital stock that would result in the ownership or control of in excess of 20% of our outstanding capital 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements stock by one or more persons who is not a U.S. citizen for purposes of U.S. coastwise shipping will be void and ineffective as against us. In addition, if at any time persons other than U.S. citizens own shares of our capital stock or possess voting power over any shares of our capital stock in excess of 20%, we may withhold payment of dividends, suspend the voting rights attributable to such shares and redeem such shares. Substantial sales of our common stock by Lime Rock, Greenhill or us could cause our stock price to decline and issuances by us may dilute the ownership interest in our company of our existing stockholders. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by Lime Rock, Greenhill or us, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. Further, if we issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, the ownership interest in our company of our existing stockholders may be diluted and the market price of our common stock may decline. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so investors in our common stock may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. Subject to Delaware law, our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our common stock, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of any applicable contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our senior secured credit agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our equity securities. Accordingly, a stockholder may have to sell some or all of its common stock in order to generate cash flow from its investment. A stockholder may not receive a gain on its investment when it sell our common stock and may lose the entire amount of its investment. Provisions in our charter documents or Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 