Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are an early stage company with a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We began our operations in May 2005. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly developing and changing industries, including challenges in forecasting accuracy, determining appropriate investments of our limited resources, market acceptance of our existing and future solutions, managing client implementations and developing new solutions. Our current operating model may require changes in order for us to achieve profitability and scale our operations efficiently. For example, we may need to enhance our software architecture to allow us to efficiently and cost effectively develop and implement new solutions, make our solutions easy to implement and download, ensure our marketing engine is designed to drive highly qualified leads cost effectively and implement changes in our sales model to improve the predictability of our sales and reduce our sales cycle. If we fail to implement these changes on a timely basis or are unable to implement them due to factors beyond our control, our business may suffer. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we face as an early-stage company. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred significant losses in each fiscal period since our inception in 2005. We experienced a net loss of $20.1 million and $24.3 million during fiscal year 2011 and 2012, respectively. At April 30, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $65.2 million. The losses and accumulated deficit were due to the substantial investments we made to grow our business and acquire clients. Although we believe our recent announcement of our intention to acquire PowerReviews, Inc. represents an attractive opportunity to expand our business, expenses associated with the purchase and subsequent integration of PowerReviews, Inc. could further delay our profitability. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest to grow our business and acquire clients, develop our platform and develop new products and solutions. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. Many of our efforts to generate revenue from our business are new and unproven, and any failure to increase our revenue or generate revenue from new products and solutions could prevent us from attaining or increasing profitability. Furthermore, to the extent we are successful in increasing our client base, we could also incur increased losses because costs associated with entering into client agreements are generally incurred up front, while revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attain or increase profitability on a client-by-client basis or on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks and difficulties as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We operate in a new and unproven market for social commerce solutions. Our success depends upon the continued development of this market, and if the market does not develop as we expect, our business could be harmed. We are focused on the market for social commerce solutions, which is new and unproven with little market research or data. It is uncertain whether the market in which we operate will continue to develop or if our solutions will achieve and sustain a level of demand and market acceptance sufficient for us to continue to generate revenue and achieve profitability. Due to our evolving business model, the uncertain size of our market and the unpredictability of future general economic and financial market conditions, we may not be able to forecast our growth rate accurately. In particular, we believe our success will depend to a large extent on the willingness of brands to use online word of mouth in their marketing and advertising materials. Many of our potential clients remain hesitant to embrace our solutions, such as Ratings & Reviews, since they are uncomfortable displaying negative reviews 17 Table of Contents about products or services offered on their websites. In addition, many brands may continue to devote significant portions of their marketing and advertising budgets to traditional, offline media or other types of online marketing or advertising initiatives that do not use online word of mouth. Some brands may be open to the idea of making online word of mouth available to consumers and yet may be unwilling or unable to implement third-party SaaS solutions similar to ours. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of our solutions will depend on the perceived authenticity of online word of mouth and effectiveness of using online word of mouth to influence purchase decisions, both online and offline, and better understand consumer preferences regarding products and services. The existence of fraudulent reviews may call into question the authenticity of online word of mouth. We also depend on the continued growth of the social web and adoption of mobile devices, among other factors. If any of these factors are not realized, then the market for social commerce solutions may not develop as we expect, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly harm our business and operating results. The market in which we participate is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market for social commerce solutions is highly competitive. The competitive dynamics of our market are unpredictable because it is at an early stage of development, rapidly evolving, fragmented and subject to potential disruption by new technological innovations. Our main competition is from traditional marketing and advertising programs used by businesses that remain hesitant to embrace social commerce solutions such as Ratings & Reviews. Additionally, some businesses have developed, or may develop in the future, social commerce solutions internally. These businesses may consider their internal solutions adequate, even if our solutions are superior. We have several direct and indirect competitors that provide third-party social commerce solutions, including companies like Revieworld Ltd and PowerReviews, Inc. (which we have entered into an agreement to acquire). Additionally, we face potential competition from participants in adjacent markets that may enter our markets by leveraging related technologies and partnering with other companies. We may also face competition from companies entering our market, including large Internet companies like Google, Inc. and Facebook, Inc., which could expand their platforms or acquire a competitor. While these companies do not currently focus on our market, they have significantly greater financial resources and, in the case of Google, a longer operating history. They may be able to devote greater resources to the development and improvement of their services than we can and, as a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to technological changes and clients’ changing needs. Because our market is changing rapidly, it is possible that new entrants, especially those with substantial resources, more efficient operating models, more rapid product development cycles or lower marketing costs, could introduce new solutions that disrupt the manner in which businesses use online word of mouth and engage with consumers online to address the needs of our clients and potential clients. Our business and operating results could be harmed if any such disruption occurs. We believe we compete primarily on the basis of product breadth and functionality, scope, quality and breadth of client base, amount and quality of content, service, price, reputation and the efficiency of our operating model. Our competitors or potential competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our solutions. As market dynamics change, or as new and existing competitors introduce more competitive pricing or new or disruptive technologies, or as clients develop internal solutions for their social commerce needs, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing clients or attract new clients at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, we may be required to change our pricing model, offer price incentives or reduce our prices in response to competitive pressures, which could harm our revenue, profitability and operating results. Moreover, many software vendors could bundle competitive products or services or offer them at a low price as part of a larger product sale. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of strategic social 18 Table of Contents commerce functions at lower prices or with greater depth than our solutions. As a result, our competitors might be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our quarterly financial results are subject to fluctuations; as a result, we could fail to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue, expenses, operating results and cash flows have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations are due to, or may in the future result from, many factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • the timing differences between when we incur sales commissions, implementation costs and other client acquisition costs associated with new solutions sales and when we generate revenue from these sales, particularly related to larger sales to new clients; • our ability to sell additional solutions to existing clients and to add new clients, in multiple regions around the world, particularly in the United States and Europe, which has fluctuated and is likely to continue to fluctuate, due to the effectiveness of our sales execution, economic conditions and other factors affecting our sales in each of these regions; • our ability, and the ability of our clients, to timely implement our solutions; • the amount, timing and effectiveness of our product development investments and related expenses and delays in generating revenue from these new solutions; • our ability to adjust our cost structure, particularly our personnel costs, in response to reductions in revenue; • the cyclical and discretionary nature of marketing spending, especially spending on social commerce solutions; • the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure and client acquisition; • our failure to achieve the growth rate that was anticipated by us in setting our operating and capital expense budgets; • active client retention rates, which have ranged on a year-to-year basis from 88.4% to 89.0% for the fiscal years 2010 through 2012; • the timing and success of new solutions, product and service offerings and pricing policies by us or our competitors or any other changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry; • the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill or intangible assets from acquired companies, including our proposed acquisition of PowerReviews, Inc.; • unforeseen litigation costs and related settlement costs, particularly those related to intellectual property infringement and our obligation to fulfill related client indemnification obligations; • changes in currency exchange rates and associated costs of hedging to manage foreign currency fluctuations; and • the adoption of new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, that restrict, or increase the costs of, providing social commerce solutions or using the Internet as a medium for communications and commerce. We offer our solutions primarily through subscription agreements and generally recognize revenue ratably over the related subscription period, which is typically one year. As a result, revenue attributable to a contract signed in a particular quarter will not be fully and immediately recognized in the quarter that the contract is 19 Table of Contents signed. Because we incur most costs associated with generating client contracts at the time of sale, we may not recognize revenue in the same period that we incur the related costs of sale. Timing differences of this nature could cause our margins and our operating income or losses to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and such fluctuations may be more pronounced in quarters in which we experience a change in the mix of new clients as a percentage of total clients. Typically, a significant percentage of our bookings occur in the last few weeks of a quarter. Accordingly, a market disruption or other event outside of our control that occurred toward the end of a quarter could have a disproportionate impact on us and could cause us to substantially miss our forecasted results for that quarter. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may lead analysts to change their long-term model for valuing our common stock, cause us to face short-term liquidity issues, impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other unanticipated issues, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the potential variations in our quarterly revenue and operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our business depends substantially on renewing agreements with existing clients and selling additional solutions to them. Any decline in our client renewals or expansions would likely harm our future operating results, especially if we are unable to recognize sufficient revenue to offset related client acquisition costs prior to such termination or cancellation of our client agreements. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our clients renew their agreements with us when the initial term expires and also purchase additional solutions from us. We offer our solutions primarily through subscription agreements and generally recognize revenue ratably over the related subscription period, which is typically one year. Our clients have no renewal obligation after their initial term expires, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew agreements with our clients at the same or higher contract value. Moreover, under specific circumstances, our clients may have the right to cancel their agreements with us before they expire, for example, in the event of an uncured breach by us. Our largest 100 active customers during fiscal year 2012 represented 54.6% of our total revenue during that year. If our clients do not renew their agreements, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional solutions, our revenue may decline, and our operating results would likely be harmed. For fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012, our active client retention rates on a year-to-year basis were 88.4%, 89.7%, and 89.0%, respectively. Our retention rates have declined in the past and may decline in the future due to a variety of factors, including: • the availability, price, performance and functionality of our solutions and competing products and services; • our ability to demonstrate to new clients the value of our solutions within the initial contract term, particularly if we are unable to introduce planned solutions innovation; • poor performance or discontinuation of our clients’ brands; • changes in our clients’ marketing or advertising strategies; • the timing and quality of ratings and reviews posted to our clients’ websites and the existence of negative reviews; • reductions in our clients’ spending levels; • consolidation in our client base; • the development by our clients of internal solutions for their social commerce needs; and • the effects of economic downturns and global economic conditions. 20 Table of Contents We incur most of our client acquisition costs at the time of sale. Depending upon the scope of the client’s needs, these costs can be significant. In certain cases, clients may have the right to terminate or cancel agreements with us if we fail to maintain service level requirements or we are otherwise in breach under the client agreements. If a client does not renew or cancels its agreement with us, we may not recognize sufficient revenue from that client prior to the termination or cancellation to offset the acquisition costs associated with that client. If the cost to acquire clients is greater than the revenue we generate over time from those clients, our business and operating results will be harmed. In addition, our costs associated with maintaining and increasing revenue from existing clients may be lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new clients. Therefore, the loss of recurring revenue or a reduction in the rate of revenue increase from our existing clients, even if offset by an increase in revenue from new clients, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We face risks associated with our planned acquisition of PowerReviews, Inc., and if we fail to integrate its business successfully, our operating results will be negatively affected. In May 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire PowerReviews, Inc., or PowerReviews, a provider of social commerce solutions based in San Francisco, California. Since this is our first acquisition, we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired products, technologies or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of the acquisition, including accounting charges or the impact on our existing business. If we fail to complete the transaction or if we fail to successfully integrate the business and operations of PowerReviews, we may not realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. The integration of PowerReviews will be a time-consuming and expensive process and will require us to bear ongoing costs associated with maintaining and supporting the existing PowerReviews technology platform. We may lose key PowerReviews employees as a result of the acquisition, which would increase our challenges in supporting the acquired technology, or customers could cancel existing agreements or choose not to purchase additional solutions from us. If our integration effort is not successful or we cannot effectively manage the associated expense, we may not realize anticipated synergies or other benefits of the PowerReviews acquisition, or it may take longer to realize these benefits than we currently expect, either of which could materially harm our business or results of operations. Our actual results may differ significantly from any guidance that we may issue in the future and the consensus expectations of research analysts. From time to time, we may release earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance will be based on forecasts prepared by our management. The principal reason that we may release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature. The speculative nature of any guidance is further exacerbated by the rapidly evolving nature and uncertain size of the market for social commerce solutions, as well as the unpredictability of future general economic and financial conditions. As a result, some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance that we furnish may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results. Any failure to meet guidance or analysts’ expectations could have a material adverse effect on the trading price or volume of our stock. If we cannot efficiently implement our solutions for clients, we may be delayed in generating revenue. In general, implementation of our solutions may require lengthy and significant work. We generally incur sales and marketing expenses related to the commissions owed to our sales representatives and make upfront investments in technology and personnel to support the engagements before we begin recognizing revenue from client contracts. We do not control our clients’ implementation schedule. As a result, as we have experienced in the past, if our clients do not allocate internal resources necessary to meet their implementation responsibilities or if we face unanticipated implementation difficulties, the implementation may be delayed. Further, in the past, our 21 Table of Contents implementation capacity has at times constrained our ability to successfully and timely implement our solutions for our clients, particularly during periods of high demand. If the client implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, whether due to our clients’ or our capacity constraints, we could incur significant costs prior to generating revenue, and our relationships with some of our clients may be adversely affected. In addition, competitors with more efficient operating models with lower implementation costs could penetrate our client relationships. Our management team has a limited history of working together and may not be able to execute our business plan. Our management team has worked together for only a limited period of time and has a limited track record of executing our business plan as a team. Most of our executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, have limited or no experience in managing publicly traded companies or companies of our size. In addition, we have recently filled a number of positions in our senior management and finance and accounting staff. Accordingly, certain key personnel have only recently assumed the duties and responsibilities they are now performing, and it is difficult to predict whether our management team, individually and collectively, will be effective in operating our business. Our growth could strain our personnel, technology and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operating results may suffer. Since our inception, we have experienced rapid growth, which has increased the complexity of our operations. As our operations have expanded, we have grown from 70 employees at April 30, 2007 to 840 employees at April 30, 2012, consisting of 640 full-time employees and 200 part-time content moderators. We have increased the size of our client base from 32 active clients at April 30, 2007 to 790 active clients at April 30, 2012. The rapid growth and increasing complexity have demanded, and will continue to demand, substantial resources and attention from our management, most of whom have limited experience in managing a business of our size and complexity. We expect to continue to hire more employees in the future as we grow our business. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel and to support financial reporting requirements as a public company, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial, technology and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Further, to accommodate our expected growth we must continually improve and maintain our technology, systems and network infrastructure. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Our inability to expand our personnel and operations in an efficient manner could result in difficulty in acquiring new clients or retaining existing clients, declines in quality or client satisfaction, increases in expenses relative to our revenue and challenges in developing and introducing new solutions, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Because we recognize revenue for our solutions ratably over the term of our client agreements, decreases in the revenue recognizable under contracts for new active clients will not be fully and immediately reflected in our operating results. We offer our solutions primarily through subscription agreements and generally recognize revenue ratably over the related subscription period, which is typically one year. As a result, some portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is revenue from contracts entered into during prior quarters. Consequently, a decline in the revenue recognizable under contracts for new active clients signed in any quarter or a decline in the growth rate of revenue recognizable under contracts signed in any quarter will not be fully and immediately reflected in the revenue of that quarter and would negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure rapidly, or at all, to take account of this reduced revenue. 22 Table of Contents Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The sales cycle for our solutions, from initial contact with a potential client to contract execution and implementation, varies widely by client and solution. Some of our clients undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, typically three to 12 months. We have no assurance that the substantial time and money spent on our sales efforts will produce any sales. If sales expected from a specific client for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our results could fall short of public expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The average sales price of our solutions may decrease, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. The average sales price of our solutions may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures in anticipation of the introduction of new solutions or technologies. In addition, because the market for our social commerce solutions is new and unproven and because our business model is evolving, we may not be able to achieve and sustain a level of demand and market acceptance sufficient for us to continue to maintain the current average sales price for our solutions. Furthermore, the composition of our clients may change in a manner that makes it more difficult to maintain such prices. Any failure to maintain our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on retaining and attracting qualified management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract high-quality management and operating personnel. Our business plan was developed in large part by our executive officers, and its implementation requires their skills and knowledge. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. We may not be able to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees. Our business also requires skilled technical and sales personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. As we expand into new vertical and geographic markets, we will require personnel with expertise in these new areas. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry and particularly in Austin, Texas, where most of our employees are based. The loss of even a few qualified employees, or an inability to retain, attract, relocate and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the planned expansion of our business, could harm our operating results and impair our ability to grow. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including an equity incentive program and incentive bonuses for executive officers and other key employees. These measures may not be sufficient to retain and attract the personnel we require to operate our business effectively. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the software industry, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to retain and attract key employees. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenue. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to sell our solutions. Our solutions require a sophisticated sales force. We currently plan to expand our sales team in order to increase revenue from new and existing clients and to further penetrate our existing markets and expand into new markets. We have hired new sales leaders to manage various sales operations. Our failure to execute on the new sales model or hire or retain qualified sales personnel may preclude us from expanding our business and generating anticipated revenue. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing sales personnel or attract, integrate or retain sufficient highly qualified sales personnel. Many of the companies with 23 Table of Contents which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If any of our sales representatives were to leave us and join one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent such sales representatives from helping competitors to solicit business from our existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. In addition, new sales hires require training and typically take several months to achieve productivity, if at all. For internal planning purposes, we assume that it will take significant time before a newly hired sales representative is fully trained and productive in selling our solutions. This amount of time may be longer for sales personnel focused on new geographies or new verticals. As a result, the cost of hiring and carrying new representatives cannot be offset by the revenue they produce for a significant period of time. Furthermore, because of the length of our sales training period, we often cannot determine if a sales representative will succeed until after he or she has been employed for several months or longer. If we experience high turnover in our sales force, or if we cannot reliably develop and grow our sales team, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. If we are not able to successfully leverage data we and our clients collect and manage through our solutions, we may not be able to increase our revenue through our analytics and other data solutions. Our ability to grow our revenue through analytics and other data solutions depends on our ability to successfully leverage data that we and our clients collect and manage through the use of our solutions. Our ability to successfully leverage such data, in turn, depends on our ability to collect and obtain rights to utilize such data in our solutions and to maintain and grow our network of clients. We currently employ cookies, which are small files of non-personalized information placed on an Internet user’s computer, on a limited basis, and we may implement them more broadly to collect information related to the user, such as the user’s Internet Protocol, or IP, address, demographic information and history of the user’s interactions with our clients. If we are unable to effectively introduce cookies more broadly, our ability to collect such data could be impaired. Additionally, our ability to both collect and utilize data may be affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including increased government regulation of the collection of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet and the increased use of features that allow website visitors to modify their settings to prevent or delete cookies and to sweep all cookies from their computers. Further, we currently do not own the data collected through the use of our solutions but currently license the data from our clients for limited aggregation purposes. If we are not able to obtain sufficient rights to the data, we may not be able to utilize it in our solutions. Finally, in order to obtain the critical mass of data necessary for our analytics and other data solutions to have value for our clients, we will need to maintain and grow our client base. Currently, a substantial amount of the data to which we have access is collected by a small number of our clients. Consequently, the loss of a single client could have a disproportionate impact on the data that is available to us. Any of these limitations on our ability to successfully leverage data could have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase our revenue through analytics and other data solutions and could harm our future operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of our solutions. If we are unable to maintain demand for these solutions or diversify our revenue sources by successfully developing and introducing new or enhanced solutions, we could lose existing clients or fail to attract new clients and our business could be harmed. Ratings & Reviews was our first social commerce solution and still remains the core element of our technology platform today. If we are unable to continue developing enhanced features for this solution to maintain demand or to diversify our revenue base by increasing demand for our other solutions and successfully developing and introducing new solutions either by internal development or acquisition, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We are currently modifying our software architecture to be able to develop and implement new solutions more efficiently and cost effectively. We are also currently investing significant amounts in research and development in connection with our efforts to leverage data that we and our clients collect and manage through the use of our solutions. Improving our architecture and developing and delivering new or upgraded solutions may require us to make substantial investments, and we have no assurance that such 24 Table of Contents new or upgraded architecture solutions will generate sufficient revenue to offset their costs. If we are unable to efficiently develop, license or acquire such new or upgraded solutions on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such solutions are not effectively brought to market, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or do not achieve market acceptance, we could lose existing clients or fail to attract new clients, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we must continuously modify and enhance our solutions to keep pace with rapid changes in the social web and Internet-related hardware, software communication, browser, database and social commerce technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to rapid technological developments, our solutions could become less marketable and less competitive or become obsolete, and our operating results could be negatively affected. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand our operations outside of the United States and, as a result, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. As our operations have expanded, we have established and currently maintain offices in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, France, Germany and Sweden. We have limited experience in operating in foreign jurisdictions outside the United States and are making significant investments to build our international operations. Managing a global organization is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and any international expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks, including the following: • the cost and resources required to localize our solutions; • competition with companies that understand the local market better than we do or who have pre-existing relationships with potential clients in those markets; • legal uncertainty regarding the application of unique local laws to social commerce solutions or a lack of clear precedent of applicable law; • lack of familiarity with and the burden of complying with a wide variety of other foreign laws, legal standards and foreign regulatory requirements, which are subject to unexpected changes; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities and difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Unfavorable conditions in the market for social commerce solutions or the global economy or reductions in marketing spending, particularly in the online retail market, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. Our operating results may vary based on the impact on us or our clients of changes in the market for social commerce solutions or the global economy. In addition, the revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depends on marketing spending by companies in the markets we serve. As of April 30, 2012, a majority 25 Table of Contents of our clients were online retailers. To the extent that weak economic conditions cause our clients and potential clients to freeze or reduce their marketing budgets, particularly in the online retail market, demand for our solutions may be negatively affected. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in marketing spending. If economic conditions deteriorate or do not materially improve, our clients and potential clients may elect to decrease their marketing budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to increase our penetration in our principal existing markets and expand into additional vertical markets, we will be unable to grow our business and increase revenue. We currently market our solutions to a variety of industries, including the retail, consumer products, travel and leisure, technology, telecommunications, financial services, healthcare and automotive industries. We believe our future growth depends not only on increasing our penetration into the principal markets in which our solutions are currently used but also on identifying and expanding the number of industries, communities and markets that use or could use our solutions. Efforts to offer our solutions beyond our current markets may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. In addition, some markets have unique and complex regulatory requirements that may make it more difficult or costly for us to market, sell or implement our solutions in those markets. Moreover, our solutions may not achieve market acceptance in new markets, and our efforts to expand beyond our existing markets may not generate additional revenue or be profitable. Our inability to further penetrate our existing markets or our inability to identify additional markets and achieve acceptance of our solutions in these additional markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth depends in part on the success of our development and implementation support relationships with third parties. We currently depend on, and intend to pursue additional relationships with, various third parties related to product development, including technology and service providers and social media platforms. Identifying, negotiating and documenting these relationships requires significant time and resources, as does integrating our solutions with third-party technologies. In some cases, we do not have formal written agreements with our development partners. Even when we have written agreements, they are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit our development partners from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services. Specifically, we outsource some of our product development, quality assurance and technology operations to two third-party contractors located in the Ukraine and Costa Rica. We also outsource some components of the development and technology operations of our Applications for Facebook to a third-party contractor located in the United States. We also rely on a third-party relationship to assist with client implementation support. We believe that supplementing our product development and implementation support activities with our outsourced third-party contractors enhances the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these activities. If we experience problems with our third-party contractors or the costs charged by our contractors increases, we may not be able to develop new solutions or enhance existing solutions or meet our clients’ implementation support needs in an alternate manner that is equally or more efficient and cost-effective. Additionally, our Applications for Facebook integrates certain of our solutions directly with Facebook’s social media platform. We currently rely on Facebook’s cooperation in order to integrate our solutions with Facebook’s platform, and we do not have a formal, written agreement with Facebook. There is no assurance that Facebook will continue to cooperate with us. Changes in Facebook’s technology or terms of use may inhibit or restrict us from continuing to integrate our solutions with Facebook’s platform. If Facebook does not continue to cooperate with us or if Facebook changes their technology or terms of use in ways that inhibit, restrict or increase the costs of the integration of our solutions with Facebook, our business could be harmed. 26 Table of Contents We anticipate that we will continue to depend on these and other third-party relationships in order to grow our business. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining existing and establishing new relationships with third parties, our ability to efficiently develop and implement new solutions could be impaired, and our competitive position or our operating results could suffer. Even if we are successful, these relationships may not result in increased revenue. We currently rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host and deliver a significant portion of our solutions, and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our solutions and harm our business. We host our solutions and serve our clients primarily from a third-party data center facility located in Texas. We also utilize third-party services that deploy data centers worldwide. We do not control the operation of any of the third-party data center facilities we use. These facilities may be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, sabotage, acts of vandalism and other misconduct. They are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes and similar events. As a result, we may in the future experience website disruptions, outages and other performance problems. Despite our efforts, the occurrence of any of these events, a decision by our third-party service providers to close their data center facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in loss of data as well as a significant interruption in the offering of our solutions and harm to our reputation and brand. Additionally, our third-party data center facility agreements are of limited durations, and our third-party data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with these facilities on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience delays in the provisioning of our solutions until an agreement with another data center facility can be arranged. This shift to alternate data centers could take more than 24 hours depending on the nature of the event, which could cause significant interruptions in service and adversely affect our business and reputation. We also depend on third-party Internet-hosting providers and continuous and uninterrupted access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our Internet-hosting or bandwidth providers for any reason or if their services are disrupted, for example due to viruses or “denial-of-service” or other attacks on their systems, or due to power loss, telecommunications failures, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes or similar events, we could experience disruption in our ability to offer our solutions or we could be required to retain the services of replacement providers, which could increase our operating costs and harm our business and reputation. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our clients’ businesses. Interruptions in our ability to offer our solutions would likely reduce our revenue, could cause our clients to cease using our solutions and could adversely affect our retention rates. In addition, some of our client agreements require us to issue credits for downtime in excess of certain targets, and in some instances give our clients the ability to terminate the agreements. Our business and results of operations would be harmed if our current and potential clients believe our solutions are unreliable. Unfavorable changes in evolving government regulation and taxation of the Internet and online communications and social commerce solutions could harm our business and results of operations. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for communications and commerce. As the use of the Internet continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy, the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and the use of the Internet as a commercial medium and the market for social commerce solutions. There is also uncertainty as to how some existing laws governing issues such as sales taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to 27 Table of Contents the Internet. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet. Any new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation restricting Internet commerce or communications or imposing greater fees for Internet use could result in a decline in the use of the Internet as a medium for commerce and communications, diminish the viability of Internet solutions generally, and reduce the demand for our solutions. Additionally, if we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to conduct our business or require us to alter our business model. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Public scrutiny of Internet privacy issues may result in increased regulation and different industry standards, which could require us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such regulations or deter or prevent us from providing our products and solutions to clients, thereby harming our business. As part of our business, we collect and store personal information. We expect our collection and storage of personal information to increase, primarily in connection with our efforts to expand our analytics and other data solutions. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the Internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. We will also face additional privacy issues as we expand into other international markets, as many nations have privacy protections more stringent than those in the United States. For example, the European Union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework, which may result in a greater compliance burden for companies with users in Europe. Various government and consumer agencies have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Increased domestic or international regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation, could require us to modify our operations and incur significant expense, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, including our ability to operate and expand internationally, could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are adopted, interpreted, or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current or planned business practices and that require changes to these practices, the design of our solutions or our privacy policy. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to consumer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our solutions, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations to our clients and other liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to client and consumer data, including personally identifiable information regarding consumers, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential sales and existing clients. 28 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that we violated intellectual property rights of others, which are extremely costly to defend and could require us to pay significant damages and limit our ability to operate. Companies in the Internet and technology industries, and other patent, copyright and trademark holders, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on claims of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and expect to receive in the future, notices that claim we or our clients using our solutions have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights. There may be intellectual property rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, copyrights and trademarks, that cover significant aspects of our technologies, content, branding or business methods. Any intellectual property claim against us or against our clients requiring us to indemnify our clients, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology, content, branding or business methods found to be in violation of another party’s rights. In addition, some of our commercial agreements require us to indemnify the other party for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such an action. We might be required or may opt to seek a license for rights to intellectual property held by others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, content, branding or business methods, which could require significant effort and expense and make us less competitive. If we cannot license or develop technology, content, branding or business methods for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our operating results. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete could be impaired. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products and services similar to ours and our ability to compete effectively would be impaired. To protect our intellectual property we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, contractual provisions and technical measures. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our technology and services to create similar offerings. The scope of patent protection, if any, we may obtain from our patent applications is difficult to predict and, if issued, our patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or of insufficient scope to prevent competitors from offering similar services. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors, subcontractors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements, and we maintain policies and procedures to limit access to our trade secrets and proprietary information. These agreements and the other actions we take may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information from unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Existing copyright and patent laws may not provide adequate or meaningful protection in the event competitors independently develop technology, products or services similar to our solutions. Even if such laws provide protection, we may have insufficient resources to take the legal actions necessary to protect our interests. Upon discovery of potential infringement of our intellectual property, we promptly take action we deem appropriate to protect our rights. Even if we do detect violations and decide to enforce our intellectual property rights, litigation may be necessary to enforce our rights, and any enforcement efforts we undertake could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our management’s attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. A failure to protect our intellectual property in a cost-effective and meaningful manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete. As of April 30, 2012, we had no patents issued, thirteen pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications and five provisional patent applications filed. We cannot be certain that any patents will be issued with respect to our current or potential patent applications. Any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or 29 Table of Contents circumvented, may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. We face potential liability and expenses for legal claims based on online word of mouth that is enabled by our solutions. If we are required to pay damages or expenses in connection with these legal claims, our operating results and business may be harmed. Our solutions enable our clients to collect and display user-generated content, in the form of online word of mouth, on their websites and other third-party websites. We are also involved in the syndication and moderation of such content. Consequently, in connection with the operation of our business, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including fraud, defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature and syndication or moderation of this information, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act and the Copyright Act. In addition, it is also possible that consumers could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information enabled by our solutions, syndicated or moderated by us and displayed on our clients’ websites or social networks. These claims, whether brought in the United States or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. If we become subject to these or similar types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. There is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content of the materials that our solutions enable. Should the content enabled by our solutions violate the intellectual property rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could have a negative impact on our business, revenue and financial condition. Our use of open source and third-party technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our solutions. We use open source software in our solutions. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts in or outside of the United States, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our solutions. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies into our solutions and may desire to incorporate additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to new third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering our solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Undetected errors or defects in our solutions could result in the loss of revenue, delayed market acceptance of our products or services or claims against us. Our solutions are complex and frequently upgraded and may contain undetected errors, defects, failures or viruses, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite testing, our solutions, or third-party products that we incorporate into our solutions, may contain undetected errors, defects or viruses that could, among other things: • require us to make extensive changes to our solutions, which would increase our expenses; • expose us to claims for damages; • require us to incur additional technical support costs; • cause negative client or consumer reactions that could reduce future sales; • generate negative publicity regarding us and our solutions; or 30 Table of Contents • result in clients electing not to renew their subscriptions for our solutions. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions and platform, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering. Any debt financing secured by us in the future would likely be senior to our common stock and could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our loan agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On July 18, 2007, we entered into a loan and security agreement with a financial institution. As amended to date, the loan agreement provides for borrowings up to $30.0 million, subject to a borrowing formula, under a revolving line of credit, with a sublimit of $2.65 million for the issuance of corporate credit cards and letters of credit on our behalf. As of April 30, 2012, we had no borrowings and a $2.3 million standby letter of credit issued under our loan agreement. Any borrowings, letters of credit and credit card services pursuant to our loan agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. Our loan agreement limits, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee the obligations of other persons; • make payments on additional indebtedness or make changes to certain agreements related to additional indebtedness; • enter into hedging arrangements; • create, incur or assume liens and other encumbrances; • make loans and investments, including acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; • sell, lease, license or otherwise dispose of assets; • store inventory and equipment with other persons; • pay dividends or make distributions on, or purchase or redeem, our capital stock; • consolidate or merge with or into other entities; • undergo a change in control; • engage in new or different lines of business; or • enter into transactions with affiliates. 31 Table of Contents Our loan agreement also contains numerous affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding compliance with applicable laws and regulations, reporting, payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance coverage, maintenance of bank and investment accounts with the financial institution and its affiliates, registration of intellectual property rights, and certain third-party consents and waivers. The operating and other restrictions and covenants in our loan agreement, and in any future financing arrangements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in certain business activities, or expand or fully pursue our business strategies, or otherwise limit our discretion to manage our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those restrictions and covenants. Our loan agreement contains events of default, which include, among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material adverse change defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, material judgment and settlement defaults, cross-defaults to certain other material agreements and defaults related to inaccuracy of representations and warranties made by us. An event of default under our loan agreement or any future financing arrangements could result in the termination of commitments to extend further credit, cause any outstanding indebtedness under our loan agreement or under any future financing arrangements to become immediately due and payable and permit our lender to exercise remedies with respect to all of the collateral securing the loans. Accordingly, an event of default could have an adverse effect on our access to capital, liquidity and general financial condition. If Internet search engines’ methodologies are modified, our SEO capability could be harmed. In connection with search engine optimization, or SEO, capabilities that we provide our clients, we depend in part on various Internet search engines, such as Google and Bing, to direct a significant amount of traffic to our clients’ websites. Our ability to influence the number of visitors directed to our clients’ websites through search engines is not entirely within our control. For example, search engines frequently revise their algorithms in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Recently, Google announced an algorithm change that affected nearly 12% of their U.S. query results. There cannot be any assurance as to whether these or any future changes that may be made by Google or any other search engines might impact our SEO capability in the long term. Changes in the methodologies used by search engines to display results could cause our clients’ websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who click to visit our clients’ websites from these search engines. Some of our clients’ websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Internet search engines could decide that content on our clients’ websites enabled by our solutions, including online word of mouth, is unacceptable or violates their corporate policies. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our clients’ websites could negatively affect our ability to earn revenue through our SEO capability. If we are unable to maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the passion, performance, innovation, openness, teamwork, respect and generosity that we believe contribute to our success and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to maintain the values that are fundamental to our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel and otherwise adversely affect our future success. We may face pressure to change our culture as we grow, particularly if we experience difficulties in attracting competent personnel who are willing to embrace our culture. However, we have no intention of succumbing to this pressure, which could make it even more difficult to attract necessary personnel. 32 Table of Contents Our revenue may be adversely affected if we are required to charge sales taxes in additional jurisdictions or other taxes for our solutions. We collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the solutions we sell in certain states and other jurisdictions. Additional states, countries or other jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future, or states or jurisdictions in which we already pay tax may increase the amount of taxes we are required to pay. A successful assertion by any state, country or other jurisdiction in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products and services could, among other things, create significant administrative burdens for us, result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage clients from purchasing solutions from us or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we undertake business combinations and acquisitions, they may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management’s attention. In addition to our planned acquisition of PowerReviews, we may support our growth through additional acquisitions of complementary businesses, services or technologies in the future. Future acquisitions involve risks, such as: • misjudgment with respect to the value, return on investment or strategic fit of any acquired operations or assets; • challenges associated with integrating acquired technologies, operations and cultures of acquired companies; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities; • diversion of management and other resources from day-to-day operations; • possible loss of key employees, clients, suppliers and partners; • higher than expected transaction costs; • potential loss of commercial relationships and customers based on their concerns regarding the acquired business or technologies; and • additional dilution to our existing stockholders if we use our common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in completing or integrating acquisitions, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy and we may have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources in seeking to complete and integrate the acquisitions. Future business combinations could involve the acquisition of significant intangible assets. We may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill. These accounting charges would reduce any future reported earnings or increase a reported loss. In addition, we could use substantial portions of our available cash, including some or substantially all of the proceeds from our initial public offering, to pay the purchase price for acquisitions. Subject to the provisions of our existing indebtedness, it is possible that we could incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or research tax credit carry-forwards, which could adversely affect our operating results. As of April 30, 2012, we had federal net operating loss carry-forwards of $49.1 million due to prior period losses, which expire beginning in 2026. We also have federal research tax credit carry-forwards of approximately $1.4 million that will begin to expire in 2026. Realization of these net operating loss and research tax credit 33 Table of Contents carry-forwards depends on many factors, including our future income. There is a risk that due to regulatory changes or unforeseen reasons our existing carry-forwards could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, under Section 382/383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income may be limited. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards or other pre-change tax attributes to offset United States federal and state taxable income may be subject to limitations. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates, which may cause our revenue and operating results to differ materially from expectations. A decline in the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies would increase our non-U.S. revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to foreign currencies, our revenue would be adversely affected. Our operating results could be negatively impacted depending on the amount of expense denominated in foreign currencies. As exchange rates vary, revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, our revenue and operating results are subject to fluctuation if our mix of U.S. and foreign currency denominated transactions and expenses changes in the future. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. If we experience material weaknesses in the future, as we have in the past, or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. As a result of becoming a public company, we will be required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2013. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual and interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the recently enacted Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, if we take advantage of the exemptions contained in the JOBS Act. We may remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years from April 30, 2012, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any October 31 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” at the end of that fiscal year. We are further enhancing the computer systems processes and related documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would likely cause the price of our common stock to decline. 34 Table of Contents We have in the past identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and although we have remediated the material weakness identified, we cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Prior to fiscal year 2010, our independent accounting firm was not registered by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. In fiscal year 2010, we appointed a PCAOB registered independent accounting firm. In connection with our fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009 audits following this appointment, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified one material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. For fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009, we did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. Specifically, we lacked sufficient finance and accounting staff with adequate depth and skill in the application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the accounting for revenue recognition and internal-use software. This control deficiency resulted in material errors, requiring the restatement of our financial results for our fiscal years ended April 30, 2008 and 2009. Since the periods with respect to which this material weakness was identified, we have taken steps to address the material weakness disclosed in the preceding paragraph, including hiring a new chief financial officer, corporate controller and other appropriately qualified accounting personnel, forming an audit committee and implementing additional financial accounting controls and procedures. As a result of these actions, we believe that this material weakness has been remediated and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere reflect the correct application of accounting guidance in accordance with GAAP. However, we have not completed the necessary documentation and testing procedures under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and cannot assure you that we will be able to implement and maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain such controls could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or publish negative research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish negative research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our stock or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock and demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors, beneficial owners of 5.0% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock and affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 50.3% of our common stock outstanding as of April 30, 2012. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. 35 Table of Contents Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock in the public stock market. We have an aggregate of 58,529,937 outstanding shares of common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of April 30, 2012. All 10,906,941 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradeable without restrictions unless these shares are held by “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Upon the release of the underwriters’ lock-up from our initial public offering, which is expected to occur on August 22, 2012, approximately 55,700,415 shares will be eligible for sale, subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. The underwriters of our initial public offering may, in their sole discretion and without notice, release all or any portion of the shares from the restrictions of any lock-up agreements described above. In addition, these lock-up agreements are subject to the exceptions described in the section of our initial public offering prospectus titled “Underwriters.” In addition, General Atlantic Partners 90, L.P., GAP Coinvestments III, LLC, GAP Coinvestments IV, LLC, GAP Coinvestments CDA, L.P. and GAPCO GmbH & Co. KG, or collectively the GA Stockholders, have also agreed with us, subject to limited exceptions, not to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of our common stock without our prior written consent for a period of 18 months after the date of our initial public offering. These shares are expected to be released from this lock-up on August 29, 2013. After the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods, the holders of an aggregate of 41,917,809 shares of our common stock will have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered the issuance of all shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our option plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the satisfaction of applicable vesting provisions, Rule 144 volume limitations, manner of sale, notice and public information requirements applicable to our affiliates and, as applicable, the lock-up agreements signed in connection with our initial public offering. Also, in the future, we may issue securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding stock. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. If we do not pay cash dividends, you could receive a return on your investment in our common stock only if the market price of our common stock has increased when you sell your shares. In addition, the terms of our loan and security agreement currently restrict our ability to pay dividends. We are an “emerging growth company,” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to “emerging growth companies” could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not 36 Table of Contents being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory “say-on-pay” votes on executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) April 30, 2017; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; and (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Exchange Act. We will be deemed a large accelerated filer on the first day of the fiscal year after the market value of our common equity held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million, measured on October 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive to the extent we rely on the exemptions available to emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to opt out of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, and greater expenditures may be necessary in the future with the advent of new laws, regulations and stock exchange listing requirements pertaining to public companies, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, impose various requirements on public companies, including establishing effective internal controls and certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have begun to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives, and additional laws and regulations may divert further management resources. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of new compliance initiatives in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to investigations and other actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock; 37 Table of Contents • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 