ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the price of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business Rating agency downgrades and impairment of certain of our loan investments have and may continue to adversely affect our cash flows. The terms of our CDOs include certain overcollateralization and interest coverage tests, which are used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest paid on the debt securities and other assets that serve as collateral underlying the CDOs may be used to pay principal and interest on the various classes of notes payable issued by the CDOs. In the event these tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on certain of the junior tranches of notes payable issued by the CDOs are instead redirected to pay principal on certain senior tranches of notes payable issued by the CDOs. Certain overcollateralization coverage tests failed with respect to the February 2009 determination date for CDO I as a result of recent rating downgrades that have occurred since December 31, 2008 and certain loan loss reserves or impairments recognized in our portfolio. As a result, on the February 25, 2009 payment date, approximately $488,000 of cash from CDO I that otherwise would have been payable to us, (i) as the holder of certain junior tranches of notes payable and preferred shares issued by CDO I and (ii) in respect of the subordinate collateral management fees, were instead redirected to pay principal and interest on certain senior tranches of notes payable issued by CDO I, which are owned by third parties. We expect that such coverage tests will continue to fail for the foreseeable future. The failures of the overcollateralization coverage tests under CDO I permit MBIA, as controlling class of CDO II bondholders, to terminate the existing collateral management agreement and to remove us as the collateral manager of CDO II. If that happens, we will lose the collateral management fees. To date, rating agency downgrades or impairment of our loan investments have not affected the overcollateralization coverage tests applicable to CDO II. However, if an additional $0.5 million in defaults occur, CDO II will also breach its overcollateralization tests. Management believes that it is likely that CDO II will fail such test at some point in 2009, which will result in the cash flows of CDO II being diverted to pay principal and interest on the most senior tranches of notes payable issued by CDO II. Apart from overcollateralization and interest coverage tests, the operative documents of the CDOs provide for certain events of default, occurrence of which would entitle a senior class or classes of notes payable to accelerate the notes payable of such CDO and, depending upon the circumstances, require a liquidation of the collateral under then-current market conditions, which could result in higher levels of losses on the collateral and the notes payable of such CDO than might otherwise occur. Because we have not entered into any new investments since July 2007, almost all of our income in 2008 came from cash flows from our CDOs. Failures of the overcollateralization coverage tests would seriously curtail our liquidity and jeopardize our ability to support the CDOs and our other assets. While we had approximately $23.1 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalent as of December 31, 2008, and believe we have sufficient cash to meet our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months, significant reduction in cash flows from our CDOs could force us to reduce staff and adversely impact our business operations. Our CDOs would continue to generate taxable income for us despite the fact that if in the future we are not receiving cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. Should this occur, taxable income would continue to be recognized on each underlying investment in the relevant CDO. We would continue to be required to distribute 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined with regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) from these transactions to continue to qualify as a REIT, despite the fact that we are not receiving cash distributions on our equity and subordinated note holdings from these CDOs. There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, our business may not benefit from these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all assets classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in the financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline of asset values. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The EESA authorizes the U.S. Secretary of Treasury to create a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on, or related to, such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008. EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. As of February 19, 2009, the U.S. Treasury had announced the establishment of the following programs under TARP: the Capital Purchase Program, or CPP, the Target Investment Program, or TIP, the Systematically Significant Failing Institutions Program, or SSFIP, the Asset Guarantee Program, or AGP, the Auto Industry Financing Program, or AIFP, and the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is partially financed by TARP. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, was signed into law on February 17, 2009. ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. ARRA also imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients. These can be no assurance that the EESA, TARP or other programs will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including current extreme levels of volatility. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to these new initiatives or these new initiatives do not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation. In addition, the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continuing dislocation in the sub-prime mortgage sector and securitization markets, and the current weakness in the broader financial markets, could adversely affect us and our ability to fund our business, which could result in increases in our borrowing costs, reduction in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. - 12 - Table of Contents The continuing dislocation in the sub-prime mortgage sector and securitization markets, and the current weakness in the broader financial markets, could adversely affect our ability to enter into new repurchase agreements or obtain other forms of financing. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. Although this reduction in liquidity has been most acute with regard to sub-prime assets, there has been an overall reduction in liquidity across the credit spectrum of mortgage products. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and/or reduce our liquidity. If major market participants continue to fail and withdraw from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain new financings, we could be forced to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed. If this were to occur, it could prevent us from complying with the REIT asset and income tests necessary to fulfill our REIT qualification requirements or could cause us not to qualify for an exemption from the 1940 Act, and otherwise materially harm our results of operation, financial outlook and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, should we enter into any new repurchase agreements, the liquidity in our portfolio may also be adversely affected by possible margin calls under any such repurchase agreements. Repurchase agreements often allow the lender, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If the lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing, subject to commercially reasonable business standards, on minimal notice as it has in the past. A significant increase in margin calls as a result of spread widening could harm our liquidity, results of operation, financial condition, business prospects, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and may impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We have not entered into any new investments since July 2007. To the extent we are able to restart our lending activities, we intend to finance our assets over the long-term through a variety of means, including warehouse lines, repurchase agreements, credit facilities, issuance of CMBS, CDOs and other structured financings. Our ability to execute this strategy will depend on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner which are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and greater credit spreads. We cannot assure you that these markets will provide an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. Currently, they do not. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to attempt to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities, if available, may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. Due to the current state of the credit and capital markets, we expect the availability of repurchase agreements, which we historically have used to finance loan originations that will ultimately be packaged in CDO offerings, will be limited throughout at least 2009. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments. However, RFC TRS, Inc., our TRS, is able to retain (and likely will retain) earnings for investment in new capital, subject to the REIT requirements which place a limitation on the relative value of TRS stock and securities owned by a REIT. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our taxable income, as our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income due to the lack of funding or increase in funding costs. A reduction in our net income would have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Therefore, in the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Our reserves reflect management’s judgment of the probability and severity of losses. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to reflect losses due to unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Higher loan loss reserves are expected if economic conditions do not improve. If the decline in the U.S. economy does not stabilize and reverse in 2009, we will likely experience significant increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and asset impairment charges in 2009. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on loans if the economy continues to weaken and they continue to experience financial stress. Declining real property values also would increase loan-to-value ratios on our loans and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the likelihood of higher loan loss reserves. Any sustained period of increased defaults and foreclosures would adversely affect our interest income, financial condition, business prospects and our cash flows. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment. Our loan loss reserves are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our determination of loan loss reserves requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a recession where commercial real estate credit has been nearly shut off and commercial real estate transactions have dramatically decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market coming back to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. Our financial condition and results of operation will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on our management team and its ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria as well as on our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow is also dependent upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage employees. We may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders. We may experience reductions in portfolio income which would reduce our ability to make distributions over time. We have not made a new investment since July 2007. Due to our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to stockholders. We may experience declines in the size of the investment portfolio over time. A reduction in the size of our portfolio would also result in reduced income available for distribution and thereby lessen our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. On December 17, 2008, we announced that our board of directors suspended the quarterly cash dividend in order to maintain our financial flexibility. - 13 - Table of Contents Our ability to retain and attract key personnel is critical to our success and our future growth. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and the other members of our management team and recruit additional qualified personnel. However, we may not succeed in retaining current personnel or recruiting additional personnel, as the market for qualified professionals in our industry is extremely competitive and costly. Members of our senior management possess substantial experience and expertise in investing, asset management and finance, and have significant relationships with our customers and other institutions which are the source of many of our investment opportunities. Therefore, if members of our management join competitors or form competing companies, it could result in the loss of investment opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Efforts to retain or attract professionals may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business. However, the lack of liquidity could force us to reduce staff, which could negatively impact our business operations. We may not be able to successfully complete securitization transactions. In addition to issuing senior securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future, to the extent consistent with REIT requirements, seek to securitize certain investments to generate cash for funding new investments, although we do not expect the markets for CDOs to be available in the near-term. This would involve creating a special-purpose vehicle, contributing a pool of our assets to the entity, and selling interests in the entity on a non-recourse basis to purchasers (who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools). We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of portfolio investments. When and if we are able to invest again, we expect we would initially finance our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities. We would use these short-term facilities to finance the acquisition of securities until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, at which time we would attempt to refinance these facilities through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance, or other long-term financing, if available. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance, if available. We also bear the risk that we may not be able to obtain short-term credit facilities or may not be able to renew any short-term credit facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend our short-term credit facilities to allow more time to seek and acquire the necessary eligible securities for a long-term financing. The inability to secure new short-term credit facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO impractical at all or when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. The inability to securitize our portfolio would hurt our performance and ability to grow our business. At the same time, the securitization of our portfolio investments might expose us to losses, as the residual portfolio investments in which we do not sell interests will tend to be riskier and more likely to generate losses. For example, we are currently receiving no cash flow from our equity and subordinate debt interests and our subordinated management fees in CDO I because certain overcollateralization coverage tests have been triggered in such CDO. We leverage our investments, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through the use of warehouse facilities, bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, loans to entities in which we hold, directly or indirectly, interests in pools of assets, and other borrowings. Our charter contains no limitations on our use of leverage. As of December 31, 2008, our outstanding indebtedness with respect to leveraged investments was $1.4 billion, secured by 61 loans and 67 CMBS investments with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $1.2 billion, representing 87% of our assets by carrying value. At December 31, 2008, our leverage ratio was 6.8 times. The percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lender’s and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of the investments’ cash flow. We intend to continue to use leverage to acquire all of our investments consistent with the policy described above, although our board of directors may alter this policy at any time. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. In addition, if a property or properties are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet required mortgage payments, the mortgage securing the property could be foreclosed upon by, or the property could be otherwise transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of asset value and income to us and our stockholders. We leverage certain of our assets through warehouse agreements. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls which we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Future credit facility providers, if any, may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash uninvested or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and ability to make distributions could deteriorate rapidly. We may change our operational policies without stockholder consent, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our REIT qualification, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, distributions and conflicts of interest or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. In May 2007, we decided to no longer pursue equity real estate investments through joint ventures arrangements, and to instead concentrate solely on our core investment areas. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy and asset allocation without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy or asset allocation, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in each class, or in the case of securities, in a single issuer, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described herein. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to you. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in instrument categories different from those described herein. In May 2007, we decided to no longer pursue equity real estate investments through joint ventures arrangements, and to instead concentrate solely on the fixed-income arena. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Liquidity in the capital markets is essential to our businesses and future growth and we rely on external sources to finance significant portion of our operations. We have limited liquidity and we may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance liquidity. Liquidity is essential to our business and our ability to grow and to fund existing obligations. Our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. We depend on external financing to fund the growth of our business mainly because one of the requirements for the Internal Revenue Code for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. Our access to equity or debt financing - 14 - Table of Contents depends on the willingness of third parties to make equity investments in us and provide us with corporate level debt. It also depends on conditions in the capital markets generally. Companies in the real estate industry, including us, are currently experiencing, and have at times historically experienced, limited availability of capital, and new capital sources may not be available on acceptable terms. Our ability to raise capital could be impaired if the capital markets have a negative perception of our long-term and short-term financial prospects or the prospects for mortgage REITs and the commercial real estate market generally. We cannot be certain that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, we will not be able to grow our business, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the liquidity in our portfolio may also be adversely affected by possible margin calls under any future repurchase agreements. Repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If such counterparties determine that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. A significant increase in margin calls as a result of spread widening could harm our liquidity, results of operation, financial condition, business prospects, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of dividends. It is difficult to predict when conditions in our business will improve. We expect that the adverse circumstances and trends in our business and securities will continue through at least the remainder of 2009, and will begin to improve thereafter only as the credit markets and overall economy improve. There can be no assurance as tow whether the credit markets and economy will improve in 2009, and even if they do improve, whether they will improve early enough in 2009 to impact our business and securities favorably in that same year. Continued disruption in the global credit markets or further deterioration in those markets may have a material adverse effect on our ability to repay or refinance our borrowings and our ability to grow our business. Currently, we have limited liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, our cash balance was $23.1 million. We may be required to pursue certain measures in order to maintain or enhance our liquidity, including seeking the extension or replacement of our debt facilities, potentially selling assets at unfavorable prices and/or reducing our operating expenses. The CDOs are subject to structural inflexibility with little or no ability on our part as holders of junior notes payable and preferred shares in the CDOs to effect sales of assets held in the CDOs to raise capital for our liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in measures to improve our liquidity. For information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, which has negatively impacted our business, and may have a material adverse effect on us. During 2008, the sub prime residential lending and single family housing markets began to experience accelerating default rates, declining real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply. The residential sector issues quickly spread more broadly into the asset-backed, corporate and other credit and equity markets. Since the sub prime meltdown, volatility and risk premiums in most credit and equity markets have increased dramatically while liquidity has decreased. These issues have continued throughout 2008 and into the beginning of fiscal 2009. Increasing concerns regarding the U.S. and world economic outlook, such as large asset write-downs at banks, rising oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, are compounding these issues and risk premiums in most capital markets remain near historical all-time highs. Although we do not have any direct sub prime exposure or direct exposure to the single family mortgage market, the factors described above have resulted in substantially reduced commercial mortgage loan originations and securitizations, and are precipitating more generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available credit. As a result, most financial industry participants, including commercial real estate lenders and investors, are finding it difficult to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing debt. Due to these conditions, the commercial real estate finance market has experienced higher volatility and less liquidity despite continued relatively strong credit performance across the sector. Credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain for the Company and its competitors. The cost of financing as well as overall market-demanded risk premiums in commercial lending have increased. Most lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there is a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets, further declines in real estate values in the U.S. and continuing credit and liquidity concerns may have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, there is no assurance that the increased financing costs, financing with increasingly restrictive terms or the increase in risk premiums that are demanded by investors will not have a material impact on our future profitability measures. However, we expect that a portion of the impact of increased capital costs will be offset by increased yields on newly-originated assets, particularly if assets in our existing commercial real estate CDOs are repaid. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute will contain negative covenants that may limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. For example, though we have legal title to our assets and have all of the risks and rewards of ownership, under a typical master repurchase agreement, the lender would have a security interest in certain assets as collateral for our obligation under the related borrowings. Accordingly, we would be prohibited, among other things, from taking any action which would directly or indirectly impair or adversely affect the lender’s security interest the underlying securities or loans, to transfer any interest in the underlying loans to any person other than the lender, to modify in any material respect or terminate any of our organizational documents or to create or permit any lien or encumbrance on the underlying securities or loans. If we issue senior securities we will be exposed to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operative flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. If we decide and the markets allow us to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. The warehouse agreements and credit facilities that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral. We use credit facilities, when available, including warehouse agreements, to finance our investments. If the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. For example, under a typical master repurchase agreement, the lender may, by notice to us, require us to transfer to the lender cash or additional collateral acceptable by the lender in its sole and absolute discretion not later than one business day after such notice was given. We may not have the funds available to pay down our debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support our credit facilities will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. - 15 - Table of Contents Further, credit facility providers may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash uninvested or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. The turmoil in the structured finance markets has negatively impacted the credit markets generally, and, as a result, investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied, to a substantial extent, on CDO financings to obtain match funded financing for our investments. Until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis. There can be no assurance as to when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through CDOs) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. If we acquire larger loans or property interests, our portfolio will be concentrated in a smaller number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to stockholders if a default or other problem arises. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate assets would not change, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and financing costs. We anticipate that, in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our assets. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding our interest income would result in operating losses for us and may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. To the extent we are able to restart our lending activities, as we have not entered into any new investments since July 2007, we price our assets based on our assumption about future credit spreads for financing those assets. We have obtained and will attempt to obtain in the future longer term financing for our assets using structured financing techniques. Such issuance entail interest rates set at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury obligations, swaps or LIBOR. If the spread that investors are paying on our current structured finance vehicle and will pay on future structured finance vehicles we may engage in over the benchmark widens and the rates we are charging or will charge on our securitized assets are not increased accordingly, this may reduce our income or cause losses and affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through TRSs) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A portion of our assets is classified for accounting purposes as “trading.” Changes in the market values of these assets will be directly charged or credited to earnings and a decline in value reduces the book value of our assets. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. - 16 - Table of Contents If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our net taxable income to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. We may suffer a loss if a borrower defaults on a non-recourse loan or on a loan that is not secured by underlying real estate. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets collateralizing the loan. For this purpose, we consider loans made to special purpose entities formed solely for the purpose of holding and financing particular assets to be non-recourse loans. If the underlying collateral value is below the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Conversely, we sometimes make loan investments that are unsecured or are secured by equity interests in the borrowing entities. These loans are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. In cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the borrower prior to a default, and as a result, their value may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. We may suffer a loss if a borrower or guarantor defaults on recourse obligations under our loans. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates, which guarantees are not secured. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. As a result of these factors, we may suffer losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. We may suffer a loss in the event of a default or bankruptcy of a borrower, particularly in cases where the borrower has incurred debt that is senior to our loan. If a borrower defaults on our loan but does not have sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy our loan. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase the time needed for us to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. We are subject to the risk that provisions of our loan agreements may be unenforceable. Our rights and obligations with respect to our loans are governed by written loan agreements and related documentation. It is possible that a court could determine that one or more provisions of a loan agreement are unenforceable, such as a loan prepayment provision or the provisions governing our security interest in the underlying collateral. If this were to happen with respect to a material asset or group of assets we could be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks associated with loan participations, such as less than full control rights. Some of our assets are participation interests in loans or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control. Increases in interest rates during the term of a loan may adversely impact a borrower’s ability to repay a loan at maturity or to prepay a loan. If interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a borrower may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Increasing interest rates may hinder a borrower’s ability to refinance our loan because the underlying property cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing or because the value of the property has decreased. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer a loss and we will not be able to reinvest proceeds in assets with higher interest rates. As a result, our financial performance and the market prices of our securities could be materially adversely affected. We manage our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board of directors does not approve each investment decision made by us, which may result in our making riskier investments. To the extent we are able to restart our lending activities, as we have not entered into any new investments since July 2007, we are authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. While our board of directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio, they do not review all of our proposed investments and are only required to approve investments or dispositions that exceed $50 million (or $75 million for investments and dispositions having credit ratings of “A” or better by a major rating agency), subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by us. Furthermore, we may use complex strategies and transactions that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our directors. We have great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets we may decide are proper investments for us. Decisions made and investments entered into by us may not fully reflect your best interests. In addition, our directors may change the investment guidelines at any time without the approval of our stockholders. Maintenance of our 1940 Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Because we are a holding company that will conduct our businesses through subsidiaries, the securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain our exceptions or exemptions from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for our common stock. In addition, certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries intend to qualify for an exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which generally means that at least 55% of each of their portfolios must be comprised of qualifying assets and 80% of each of their portfolios must be comprised of qualifying - 17 - Table of Contents assets and real estate-related assets under the 1940 Act. To comply with these regulations, we may from time to time buy or originate whole loans, certain B Notes, mezzanine loans, and other qualifying assets. We will treat certain B Notes as qualifying real estate assets if, among other conditions, (i) we have approval rights in connection with any material decisions pertaining to the administration and servicing of the relevant mortgage loan and with respect to any material modification to the relevant loan agreements, and (ii) in the event that the relevant mortgage loan becomes non-performing, we have effective control over the remedies relating to the enforcement of the loan, including ultimate control of the foreclosure process by having the right to: (a) appoint the special servicer to manage the resolution of the loan, (b) advise, direct or approve the action of the special servicer, (c) terminate the special servicer at any time with or without cause, (d) cure the default so that the loan is no longer non-performing, and (e) purchase the A Note at par plus accrual interest, thereby acquiring the entire mortgage loan. We will treat certain mezzanine loans (Tier 1 mezzanine loans) as qualifying real estate assets, if, among other conditions, we (i) exercise ongoing control rights over the management of the underlying property, (ii) have the right to readily cure a default or purchase the mortgage loan, and (iii) have the right to foreclose on the collateral and, through our ownership in the property-owning entity become the owner of the underlying property. Although we intend to monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this exemption from registration. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying and/or real estate-related assets and future revisions of the 1940 Act or further guidance from the SEC Staff may cause us to lose our exemption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. We periodically evaluate our assets, and also evaluate prior to an acquisition or origination the structure of each prospective investment, to determine whether the investment will be a qualifying asset for purposes of maintaining our exemption or exclusion from registration under the 1940 Act, and will consult with counsel when necessary. Failure to maintain this exemption or exclusion would require us to significantly restructure our business plan. Rapid changes in the values of our other real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations. We face risks related to securities litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face additional litigation in the future that could also harm our business. On October 30, 2007, a putative class action lawsuit was commenced in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut against our company, our former chief financial officer and our former chief executive officer seeking remedies under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Amended complaints filed on March 25, 2008 and May 6, 2008 added our chairman and the underwriters that participated in our October 2006 initial public offering as additional defendants. The underwriters have since been dropped from the suit by voluntary dismissal filed by the plaintiffs with the court in December 2008. The plaintiffs allege that the registration statement and prospectus relating to the initial public offering contained material misstatements and material omissions. Specifically, the plaintiffs allege that management had knowledge of certain loan impairments and did not properly disclose or record such impairments in the financial statements. The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired common stock that is traceable to our initial public offering in September 2006 and seek damages in an unspecified amount. On July 29, 2008, we filed a Motion to Dismiss the putative class action suit with the federal district court for the District of Connecticut. Following oral arguments in November 2008, the plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on December 22, 2008. We have since filed a revised Motion to Dismiss the second amended complaint, and are awaiting the court’s ruling on that motion. In addition, on January 15, 2008 and February 7, 2008, we received complaints from an attorney representing two stockholders, alleging that certain officers and directors of our company knowingly violated generally accepted accounting principles for certain of our assets. The stockholders demanded that we take action to recover from such directors and officers the amount of damages sustained by us as a result of the misconduct alleged therein and to correct deficiencies in our internal controls and accounting practices that allowed the misconduct to occur. In response to the letters from stockholders’ counsel, our board of directors appointed a special committee to investigate the allegations set forth in the letters. On July 10, 2008, the special committee reported its findings to our board of directors and recommended that no further action be taken. Our board of directors has adopted the committee’s recommendation unanimously. We believe that the allegations and claims against us and our directors, former chief financial officer and former chief executive officer are without merit and we intend to contest these claims vigorously. An adverse resolution of the action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period in which the lawsuits and claims are resolved. We are not presently able to estimate potential losses to us, if any, related to these lawsuits and claims. Adverse changes in general economic conditions have adversely affected our business. Our success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally, and in the geographic areas in which a substantial number of our investments are located. The recent adverse changes in national economic conditions and in the economic conditions of the regions in which we conduct substantial business have had an adverse effect on real estate values and our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions like the current credit crisis, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. For example, our non-performing loans have increased materially through 2008, particularly in the third quarter. Although we maintain reserves for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts in amounts that we believe are sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in our portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. As discussed in the preceding risk factors, the current credit crisis has contributed to a downgrading of our credit ratings. This downgrade and adverse market conditions generally have increased our funding costs, decreased our net investment income and limited our access to the capital markets. Further, this downgrade could result in a decision by the lenders under our existing bank credit facilities not to extend such credit facilities after their expiration. Such results have had a material adverse effect on our financial performance and the market prices of our securities. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the reserve for loan losses, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (debt obligations, loan assets, securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), deferred income tax assets or liabilities, share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of prepayments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. - 18 - Table of Contents We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. Recent market conditions have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as those which occurred during 2008, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we make investments directly through various of our businesses in securities, including private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we have historically made. To the extent we are able to restart our lending activities, as we have not entered into any new investments since July 2007, we compete with other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the value of our securities. Risks Related To Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. We have incurred substantial impairment of our assets and may incur significant impairments in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including current adverse market conditions affecting the real estate market, we have incurred substantial impairments of our assets. These impairments have resulted in significant losses. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded approximately $126.5 million in loan loss provisions and $46.2 in impairment losses related to certain of our investments. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded approximately $19.6 million in loan loss provisions and $62.4 million in impairment losses related to certain of our investments. Our assets may suffer additional impairments in the future causing us to recognize significant losses. If we are unsuccessful in renegotiating, selling or otherwise resolving assets that are currently nonperforming or that we expect will become nonperforming, we may experience loss of principal or reduced income available for distributions. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. These impairments, or the perception that these impairments may occur, can depress our stock price, harm our liquidity and materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity as a result of these impairments or otherwise, you could lose some or all of your investment. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate, interests in joint ventures that do own real estate, and in the future and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments will be subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; - 19 - Table of Contents • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions, including the credit and securitization markets; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our assets may include high yield and subordinated corporate securities that have greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest in high yield and subordinated securities. However, we do not have any specific policy with respect to allocations in high yield and subordinated securities and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in these assets. These investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior secured loans. First, the high yield securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Even if secured, these high yield securities may have higher loan-to-value ratios than a senior secured loan. Furthermore, our right to payment and the security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Certain of these high yield and subordinated securities may have an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the obligation. We do not have any policy regarding the maximum term (maturity) on these assets. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its obligation may be dependent upon a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the obligation. In addition to the above, numerous other factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its obligation, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the obligation. Losses in our high yield and subordinated securities could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. High yield and subordinated securities from highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss which, in turn, could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies in which we will hold investments. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Losses on our investments could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We retain equity interests of CDO issuances and such interests involve significant risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. We retain equity interests of CDO issuances. However, we do not have any specific policy with respect to allocations in CDOs and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in this asset class. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as real estate-related investments, bank loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults by the issuers of the underlying collateral and those defaults exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDOs equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the values of the underlying collateral. We may enter into warehouse agreements in connection with CDOs and if the investment in the CDO is not consummated, the warehoused collateral will be sold and we must bear any loss resulting from the purchase price of the collateral exceeding the sale price. In connection with CDOs that we structure, when markets permit, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements with investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the institution will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be transferred to the CDO. We will select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the institution may liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we will have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs, generally is the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within about three to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we cannot assure you that we would in fact be able to complete any such transaction, or complete it within the expected time period. Increases in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing CMBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in CMBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our investment in CMBS is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these CMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the warehouse agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of CMBS. Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that are subject to prepayment risk, market illiquidity and widening of credit spreads. - 20 - Table of Contents Some of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by us and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our portfolio investments are in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded is not readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our management using a variety of industry accepted techniques and report the results to our board of directors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Negative covenants contained in repurchase agreements increase the possibility that we will be unable to maintain adequate capital and funding and may reduce cash available for distribution. We historically have obtained a significant portion of our funding for new investments through the use of repurchase facilities. Any future repurchase agreements may include negative covenants that, if breached, may cause transactions to be terminated early. The occurrence of an event of default or termination event could give our counterparty the option to terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we were required to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and were unable to negotiate more favorable funding terms, cash would be negatively impacted. This would reduce the amount of capital available for investing and/or could negatively impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, we could have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. We believe the risks associated with our business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of, or halt our making of, new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to you. Beginning in 2007, there was significant volatility in the capital markets and, as a result, we have not entered into a new investment since July 2007. We believe we are currently in a period of economic slowdown and that such conditions will likely persist through at least the remainder of 2009. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where properties that we may acquire are concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office and industrial properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of the properties underlying our investments. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office and industrial space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer’s financial conditions. We co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. Although our existing joint venture agreements do not contain such provisions, and we have suspended new investments in joint ventures, we may in the future enter into joint venture agreements that contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. For example, we may be entitled under a particular joint venture agreement to an economic share in the profits of the joint venture that is smaller than our ownership percentage in the joint venture, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner’s interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or the properties underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. If we acquire properties directly, there may be environmental problems associated with the property of which we were unaware. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. If we acquire any properties, the presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases, if any, will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless would be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by such tenants, and we cannot ensure you that any tenants we might have would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to such properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and we may also - 21 - Table of Contents hedge against the decline in the values of our portfolio position, and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may conduct certain of our hedging activity in our TRS for REIT qualification purposes. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows on our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities or fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions, in each case resulting from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Our board of directors will be responsible for approving the types of hedging instruments we may use, absolute limits on the notional amount and term of a hedging instrument and parameters for the credit-worthiness of hedge counterparties. Management is responsible for executing transactions with our finance and capital market professionals, documenting the transactions, monitoring the valuation and effectiveness of the hedges, and providing reports concerning our hedging activities and the valuation and effectiveness of our hedges, to the audit committee of our board of directors no less often than quarterly. We expect to engage experienced third party advisors to provide us with assistance in the identification of interest rate risks, the analysis, selection and timing of risk protection strategies, the administration and negotiation of hedge documentation, settlement or disposition of hedges, compliance with hedge accounting requirements and measurement of hedge effectiveness and valuation. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements of interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increase as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Prepayments can adversely affect the yields on our investments. The yield of our assets may be affected by the rate of prepayments differing from our projections. Prepayments on debt instruments, where permitted under the debt documents, are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments on mortgages, and loans generally increase. If we are unable to invest the proceeds of such prepayments received at similar yields, the yield on our portfolio will decline. In addition, we may acquire assets at a discount or premium and if the asset does not repay when expected, our anticipated yield may be impacted. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. The mortgage loans we originate and acquire and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage and asset-backed securities we originate and acquire are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. We originate and acquire commercial mortgage loans. However, we do not have any specific policy with respect to allocations in commercial mortgage loans and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in this product type. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multi-family or commercial properties and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of a single family residential property. The ability of a borrower to pay the principal of and interest on a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the exercise of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. Accordingly, the CMBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. The B Notes we originate and acquire may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We originate and acquire B Notes. However, we do not have any specific policy with respect to allocations in B Notes and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in this product type. B Notes are mortgage loans that are typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may - 22 - Table of Contents not be sufficient funds remaining for B Note owners after payment to the A Note owners. B Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B Note investment. Further, B Notes typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. B Notes also are less liquid than CMBS, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in our B Note investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. Except in rare instances, loans we may acquire or originate will not conform to conventional loan criteria applied by traditional lenders and will not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody’s Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor’s, BBB-, or below). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, loans we originate or acquire may have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to stockholders and adversely affect the value of our common stock. We currently anticipate investing primarily in unrated or non-investment grade assets. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. We originate and acquire mezzanine loans. However, we do not have any policy with respect to allocations in mezzanine loans and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in this asset class. Investments in mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. We evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether they are impaired. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. There can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity. If we collect less than our estimates, we will record charges which could be material. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent that we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We may make preferred equity investments. However, we do not have any specific policy with respect to allocations in preferred equity investments and our charter contains no limitations on the percentage we may invest in this asset class. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. Loans to owners of net lease properties may generate losses. We may make loans to owners of net leased real estate assets. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in loans to owners of net lease properties, if any, will depend upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its obligations to maintain the property under the terms of the net lease. If a tenant fails or becomes unable to so maintain a property, the borrower would have difficulty making its required loan payments to us. In addition, under many net leases the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including among other things, the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If the borrower were to fail to meet these obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which may result in a loss of our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property to the borrower and the borrower would have difficulty making its required loan payments to us. In addition, the borrower may find it difficult to lease property to new tenants that may have been suited to the particular needs of a former tenant. Our investments in subordinated loans and subordinated CMBS are generally in the “second loss” position and therefore subject to losses. We intend to acquire subordinated loans and invest in subordinated CMBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, certain of our loans may be subordinate to other debt of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill periods”) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder and then by the “second loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of - 23 - Table of Contents default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related CMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying CMBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. An economic downturn could increase the risk of loss on our investments in subordinated mortgage-backed securities. The prices of lower credit-quality securities, such as the subordinated mortgage-backed securities in which we invest, are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but are more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual property developments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage-backed securities to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support to a securitized structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g. , the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. Our investments in debt securities involve special risks. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed herein. Our investments in debt are subject to the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and CMBS and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Debt securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We may purchase CMBS denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British pound and the Euro. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our receipt of interest income on these investments. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We have made investments, and expect to make additional investments in securities that are not publicly traded. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we could be attributed with material non-public information regarding such business entity. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. - 24 - Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Trading Our common stock has been delisted from the NYSE and we will shortly be ineligible to be traded on the OTCBB which would severely decrease its liquidity. On November 4, 2008, the 30 trading-day average market capitalization of our common stock fell below $25 million, resulting in the permanent delisting of our common stock from the NYSE. On November 10, 2008, our common stock began trading through normal brokerage channels on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is an electronic, regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information for over-the-counter equity securities issued by companies that are subject to periodic filing requirements with the SEC or other regulatory authority. However, if we deregister our common stock from the Exchange Act and suspend our obligation to file periodic reports with the SEC, our common stock will become ineligible to be traded on the OTCBB and will be forced to trade on Pink Sheets. While the trading of our common stock on the OTCBB or the Pink Sheets does not affect our business operations, the trading volume and liquidity of our common stock may be adversely impacted. We have not established a minimum distribution and payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future, or we may reduce our distributions as compared to historical levels; particularly if our revenues decline due to a reduction in our total assets from repayments, asset sales or credit losses. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated tax earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s basis in its investment. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the initial public offering price or the price you paid in the market. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate or specialty finance industry; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of our key personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • hostile merger and acquisition activities such as unsolicited hostile offers or dissident nomination of director slates; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions, including the current state of the credit and capital markets. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our incentive plan), or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Your interest in us may be diluted if we issue additional shares. Existing stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future. Therefore, you may experience dilution of their equity investment if we sell additional common stock in the future, sell securities that are convertible into common stock or issue shares of common stock, including shares issued as incentive compensation under our management agreement, or options exercisable for shares of common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sales on the market price of our common stock. Any sales of a substantial number of our shares in the public market, or the perception that sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. - 25 - Table of Contents An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value of the investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. Risks Related To Our Organization and Structure Our charter and bylaws and the provisions of Maryland law contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter and bylaws and the provisions of Maryland law contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year beginning after December 31, 2005, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals during the second half of any calendar year and our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Our charter generally prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock or more than 9.8% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock, subject to important exceptions. This restriction may: • discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our board of directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or • result in shares issued or transferred in violation of such restrictions being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary and thereby resulting in a forfeiture of ownership of the additional shares. • Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to amend the charter without stockholder approval to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series and to issue common or preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board. Thus, our board could authorize the issuance of stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. • Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. “Control shares” means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholders’ meeting or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as required by the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholders’ meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. However, our board of directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal or modify this exemption, in which case any control shares of our company acquired in a control share acquisition will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. • Business Combinations. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which such person otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of directors. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • eighty percent of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. - 26 - Table of Contents These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution which provides that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from the provisions of the Act, provided, that the business combination is first approved by the board of directors. This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. If this resolution is repealed, or the board of directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. • Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. • Maryland law allows a staggered board without a stockholder vote. Maryland law permits a public Maryland corporation that meets certain requirements to add certain anti-takeover provisions to its charter without a stockholders vote, including a classified or staggered board of directors. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate our company to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present or former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Our access to confidential information may restrict our ability to take action with respect to some investments, which, in turn, may negatively affect the potential return to stockholders. We may obtain confidential information about the companies in which we have invested or may invest. If we do possess confidential information about such companies, there may be restrictions on the ability to dispose of, increase the amount of, or otherwise take action with respect to an investment in those companies. Our management of investment funds could create a conflict of interest to the extent we are aware of inside information concerning potential investment targets. We will implement compliance procedures and practices designed to ensure that inside information is not used for making investment decisions on behalf of the funds and to monitor funds invested. We cannot assure you, however, that these procedures and practices will be effective. In addition, this conflict and these procedures and practices may limit the freedom of us to make potentially profitable investments, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. These limitations imposed by access to confidential information could therefore negatively affect the potential market price of our common stock and the ability to distribute dividends. Tax Risks Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Our qualification as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions rendered to or statements by the issuers of securities in which we invest. When purchasing securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and therefore to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing CDO equity, we may rely on opinions of counsel regarding the qualification of the CDO for exemption from U.S. corporate income tax and the qualification of interests in such CDO as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and increase the tax liability of our stockholders and limit the manner in which we effect securitizations. We have and may continue to enter into transactions that will result in us or a portion of our assets being treated as a “taxable mortgage pool” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Specifically, we have and may in the future continue to securitize whole loans, B Notes, mezzanine loans or CMBS assets that we acquire and such securitizations will likely result in us owning interests in a taxable mortgage pool. We have and may enter into such transactions at the REIT level. We are taxed at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our stock held by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from tax on unrelated business taxable income. To the extent that common stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in record name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or other nominee would be liable for the corporate level tax on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the common stock held by the broker/dealer or other nominee on behalf of the “disqualified organizations.” We expect that disqualified organizations will own our shares. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company (“RIC”) or other pass-through entity owning our common stock in record name will be subject to tax at the highest corporate tax rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their owners that are disqualified organizations. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 - 27 - Table of Contents of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. If the stockholder is a REIT, RIC, common trust fund, or other pass-through entity its allocable share of our excess inclusion income could be considered excess inclusion income of such entity. Accordingly, such investors should be aware that a significant portion of our income may be considered excess inclusion income. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualification as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. While we operate in such a way as to qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our net income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were eligible for relief under U.S. federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to pay some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property, including mortgage loans, as a dealer or if a TRS of ours, including RFC TRS, Inc., enters into agreements with us on a basis that is determined to be other than an arm’s-length basis. In addition, any TRS we own, including RFC TRS, Inc., will be required to pay federal, state and local income taxes on its taxable income, including income from the sale of any loans that we do not hold in our portfolio, as well as an other applicable taxes. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our net taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to distribute our net taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that taxable REIT subsidiaries distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders and RFC TRS, Inc., our TRS, may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. For example, we may invest in debt instruments or notes whose face value may exceed its issue price as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes (“original issue discount,” or OID), such that we will be required to include in our income a portion of the OID each year that the instrument is held before we receive any corresponding cash. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our REIT taxable income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 reduced the maximum U.S. federal tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers to 15% (through 2010). Dividends paid by REITs to these stockholders are generally not eligible for these reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to non-REIT corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage loan and preferred equity investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. The stock ownership diversification rules applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code and the stock ownership limitation imposed by our charter may inhibit market activity in our common stock and may restrict our business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year beginning after December 31, 2005, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any calendar year. “Individuals” for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. Our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock or more than 9.8% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock, subject to important exceptions. This ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. - 28 - Table of Contents Our ownership of and relationship with our TRS is limited and a failure to comply with the limits may jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any net taxable income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Our TRS, RFC TRS, Inc., will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The aggregate value of the TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of our attractive total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our investments in TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 25% (20% for tax years commencing before January 1, 2009) of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the close of each calendar quarter). In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. The value of the securities of that we hold in our TRSs may not be subject to precise valuation. Accordingly, there can be no complete assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% (or 20%) limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge our investments. Except to the extent provided by Treasury regulations, (i) for transactions entered into on or prior to July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into in the normal course of our business primarily to manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, to acquire or carry real estate assets, including gain from the sale or disposition of such a transaction, will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (and will generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test) and (ii) for transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any income from a hedging transaction where the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate or hedges risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. To qualify under either (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence, the hedging transaction must be clearly identified as specified in Treasury regulations before the close of the day on which it was acquired, originated or entered into. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through RFC TRS, Inc. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full corporate income tax. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock, which will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. To the extent the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this excess amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. Forward-Looking Information This report includes certain statements that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terms such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “should,” “will” and “would” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and expectations can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us or are within our control. If a change occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these risks along with the following factors that could cause actual results to vary from our forward-looking statements: • our future operating results; - 29 - Table of Contents • our business operations and prospects; • general volatility of the securities markets in which we invest and the market price of our common stock; • changes in our business strategy; • the effect of trading on the OTCBB and/or the Pink Sheets; • availability, terms and deployment of short-term and long-term capital; • availability and retention of qualified personnel; • our ability to effectively internalize the management function of our business and operate as an internally managed company; • changes in our industry, interest rates, the debt securities, credit and capital markets, the general economy or the commercial finance and real estate markets specifically; • unanticipated increases in financing and other costs, including a rise in interest rates, or requirements for additional collateral; • the cost of our capital, which depends in part on our asset quality, the nature of our relationships with our lenders and other capital providers, our business prospects and outlook and general market conditions; • increased rates of default and/or decreased recovery rates on our investments; • our ability to satisfy complex rules in order for us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and qualify for our exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to qualify as REITs and certain our subsidiaries to qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries for U.S federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiary to operate effectively with the limitations imposed by these rules; • risk of structured finance investments; • the performance and financial condition of borrowers and corporate customers; • legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of REITs or the exemptions from registration as an investment company); • increased prepayments of the mortgage and other loans underlying the company’s investments; • status of the class action lawsuit; • potential derivative stockholder claims and any future litigation that may arise; • the ultimate resolution of our six non-performing loans totaling $128.4 million and our three watch list loans totaling $75.5 million; • the monetization of our joint venture investments; • availability of investment opportunities in real estate-related and other securities; • the degree and nature of our competition; • the ability to come back into compliance with the covenants under CDO I; • the ability to maintain compliance with the covenants under CDO II; • whether the company remains as collateral manager of CDO II; • working capital; • the timing of cash flows, if any, from our investment; • available liquidity; • other factors, which are beyond the company’s control; and • other factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 