D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. Risks Relating to Compliance with PRC Law Our failure to comply with certain aspects of applicable PRC laws and regulations could adversely affect our business operations and corporate structure. In order to conduct our business operations through our indirectly wholly-owned operating subsidiaries in China, which we collectively refer to as our PRC operating subsidiaries, and our consolidated affiliated entities in China, which we collectively refer to as our PRC operating affiliates, also referred to as our variable interest entities, or VIEs, we are required to comply with a range of PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations applicable to contractual arrangements among our operating subsidiaries and affiliates, requirements to register the equity pledges relating to those contractual arrangements, other registration requirements under State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, rules and regulations, and obligations by us, our management and our PRC shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, registration and disclosure requirements. Due to uncertainties in the law, the lack of implementing regulations and, in some instances, our delay in complying with some of these rules, there is a risk that we could be found to have violated rules and regulations relating to our corporate structure, SAFE and SAIC registration and PRC foreign exchange rules. As detailed in the risk factor paragraphs below, if we are found to have failed to comply with or breached PRC laws and regulations applicable to us and our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates we could be subject to, among other things, penalties including fines, revocation of business licenses of the PRC entities or requirements to restructure our business operations. Our failure to comply with PRC laws and regulations relating to the registration of equity pledges under our contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates could also render the equity pledge, and the structure, unenforceable. 6 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, our PRC operating affiliates accounted for $438.8 million of our assets, of which $397.8 million consisted of goodwill associated with acquisitions conducted in the early stages of our corporate history. Excluding goodwill, assets of our PRC operating affiliates accounted for 3.3% of our total assets as of December 31, 2010, composed primarily of cash and cash equivalents, rental deposits and accounts receivable. Currently, our consolidated variable interest entities hold less than 20% of the leases used in the operation of our LCD display network, in-store network and movie theater network. Net revenues generated by our PRC operating affiliates accounted for approximately 1.5% of our net revenues in 2011. In the event of such deconsolidation, to continue operating the businesses currently conducted by our consolidated variable interest entities, we may need to take certain actions, for example, transferring the equity ownership of our consolidated variable interest entities from our nominee shareholders to our PRC operating subsidiaries which are directly owned by non-PRC subsidiaries of ours, which we collectively refer to as wholly-foreign owned, or WFOE operating subsidiaries, which may result in additional administrative and legal costs, less favorable business relationships or other regulatory burdens or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. If we are unable to continue operating the businesses using the leases held by our PRC operating affiliates and unable to renegotiate new leases through our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may not be able to collect the 1.5% of our net revenues currently derived from our PRC operating affiliates. In addition, we may lose access to the assets of our PRC operating affiliates, excluding goodwill, which represent 3.3% of our total assets Further, if our consolidated variable interest entities are deconsolidated and the PRC authorities did not allow us to transfer the operational assets of our consolidated variable interest entities to our WFOE operating subsidiaries, in order to continue operating the businesses of our consolidated variable interest entities, our consolidated variable interest entities may need to terminate the leases they hold and we may need to negotiate new leases for the underlying properties through our WFOE operating subsidiaries. Such termination and renegotiation may entail additional administrative and legal costs and we may not be able to obtain similarly favorable terms for such properties. Furthermore, advertising businesses conducted by our WFOE operating subsidiaries are subject to certain risks associated with PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment in the advertising businesses in China. See “—If the PRC government determines that the ownership structure of our operating subsidiaries or our operating affiliates, or the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with current or future PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry, we could be subject to penalties which may materially and adversely affect our business or financial condition.” Increasing the proportion of our business conducted by our WFOE operating subsidiaries increases our exposure to certain risks associated with such laws and regulations while mitigating other risks. If we were subject to any such penalties or negative consequences, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. If Jason Nanchun Jiang, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, were to breach any of his contractual or fiduciary obligations to us and our affiliated consolidated entities, we could be subject to regulatory penalties and sanctions and our operations could be materially adversely affected. Jason Nanchun Jiang, as the 85% holder of Shanghai Focus Media Advertisement Co., Ltd., or Focus Media Advertisement, entered into contractual agreements among us, our PRC operating subsidiaries, and our PRC operating affiliates. See “Item 7.B Major Shareholders and Related Party Transaction — Related Party Transactions — Agreements among Us, Our PRC Operating Subsidiaries, Our PRC Operating Affiliates and Their Shareholders”. Under those agreements, Jason Nanchun Jiang is obligated to procure the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereunder, to maintain the valid existence of and obtainment and maintenance of all the requisite operation licenses by the relevant PRC operating affiliates, and to prevent the PRC operating affiliates from entering into any transaction that jeopardizes the assets, business operation, ownership structure and other rights of the PRC operating affiliates. As our chairman and chief executive officer, he also has fiduciary obligations to us under Cayman Islands law. Due to uncertainties in the implementation of PRC laws and regulations, we may be put at risk from failures to comply with all such laws. See “— We use contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their shareholders for a portion of our China operations, and uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements and thus our ability to conduct our business” relating to the failure to register the equity pledges, “— PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. A failure by us or our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with such regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition” relating to Jason Nanchun Jiang’s failure to complete subsequent registrations with the SAFE, and “Our PRC operating subsidiaries and operating affiliates may have engaged in business activities without the necessary registration with local authorities. This could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could negatively impact our revenues or interfere with our ability to operate our business” relating to the failure of some of our indirect operating subsidiaries or our operating affiliates to register with the relevant local branch of SAIC for their expansion of business or for their branch offices in each of the cities where we operate. 7 Table of Contents Neither we, our operating subsidiaries, operating affiliates or Jason Nanchun Jiang has been subject to fines, sanctions or penalties as a result of these legal compliance matters. Nevertheless, if we, our operating subsidiaries, operating affiliates or Jason Nanchun Jiang are subject to such fines, sanctions or penalties resulting from any such non-compliance, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. If the PRC government determines that the ownership structure of our operating subsidiaries or our operating affiliates, or the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with current or future PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. Substantially all of our operations are or will be conducted through our PRC operating subsidiaries and through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China. PRC regulations require any foreign entities that invest directly in the advertising services industry to have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. Since December 10, 2005, foreign investors have been allowed to own directly 100% of PRC companies operating an advertising business if the foreign entity has at least three years of direct operations in the advertising business outside of China or less than 100% if the foreign investor has at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. Generally we do not currently directly operate an advertising business outside of China and our non-PRC subsidiaries cannot qualify under PRC regulations for direct investment in the advertising industry. Thus, our non-PRC subsidiaries and our WFOE operating subsidiaries are ineligible to apply for the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. Our non-PRC subsidiaries are ineligible to apply for such required licenses too. However, current PRC regulations do not restrict domestic companies controlled by WFOEs through contractual arrangements from operating advertising businesses. As such, in the early stages of our corporate history, our advertising businesses were initially provided, and most businesses we acquired from third parties were provided, through contractual arrangements between our WFOE operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates. Nevertheless, PRC governmental authorities may in the future deem that such business operations by domestic companies controlled by WFOEs evade the qualifications requirements on foreign investment in the advertising industry, and thus, restrict our business operations. However, despite these restrictions, the PRC restriction on foreign investment in the advertising industry does not expressly apply to the investment activities of WFOEs, and starting from late 2007, the advertising industry has been re-classified from a “restricted” area to a “permitted” area for foreign investment. Thus, WFOEs may establish subsidiaries in China to operate advertising business directly in China. As such, certain of our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries succeeded in obtaining the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. However, the PRC governmental authority may determine in the future that such indirect investments evade the qualification requirements on foreign investment in the advertising industry and thus bans such investment activities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 98.5% of our net revenue was generated by our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries, in which we hold equity interests through our WFOEs, and 1.5% of our net revenue was generated by our PRC operating affiliates, which we control through contractual arrangements. All of the revenues generated by our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries may be distributed to our WFOEs as dividends without reliance on contractual arrangements between any of our entities. Such revenues may then be further distributed to offshore entities, including Focus Media Holding Limited, by our WFOEs following the applicable SAFE registrations and procedures. All of the revenues generated by our PRC operating affiliates are available to us for general business operations in China. Although we have been migrating business from the PRC operating affiliates to our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries and intend to reduce our reliance on our contractual relationships with our PRC operating affiliates and increase the portion of our advertising revenues generated from our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries, we expect to continue to rely on our PRC operating affiliates, to operate a portion of our advertising business for the foreseeable future, given the time and financial costs required for converting these PRC operating affiliates into our indirect subsidiaries or transferring their business to our PRC operating subsidiaries. We currently do not have any plans to terminate existing contractual relationships with our PRC operating affiliates, although our reliance on such relationships has decreased over time. As of December 31, 2011, our PRC operating affiliates accounted for $461.7 million of our assets, including $399.1 million in goodwill associated with acquisitions conducted in the early stages of our corporate history, as well as $5.5 million in goodwill associated with our acquisition in 2011 of a controlling interests in Shanghai Enjoy Media Advertising & Broadcasting Co., Ltd , or Enjoy Media, which we operate through a VIE structure, because Enjoy Media distributes electronic coupons via Q.com.cn which may require an Internet content provider, or ICP, license in the future and because it operates in an area in which direct foreign ownership is subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Excluding goodwill, assets of our PRC operating affiliates accounted for approximately 3.3% of our total assets excluding goodwill as of December 31, 2011. Accordingly, our advertising services are currently conducted by (i) our indirect PRC operating subsidiaries and (ii) our PRC operating affiliates, including Focus Media Advertisement and its subsidiaries. Our PRC operating affiliates, which we control through contractual relationships are owned by either (i) one or more individuals designated by us, (ii) one or more PRC entities owned by other PRC operating affiliates or (iii) a combination of individuals and PRC entities owned by other PRC operating affiliates. We have entered into contractual arrangements with certain of PRC operating affiliates and their respective shareholders pursuant to which we, through our PRC operating subsidiaries, cooperate with, and provide technical support services to, our PRC operating affiliates. In addition, we have entered into agreements with certain of our PRC operating affiliates and each of their shareholders which provide us with the substantial ability to control these affiliates and their existing and future subsidiaries. 8 Table of Contents If we, our existing or future PRC operating subsidiaries and operating affiliates or their ownership structure or the contractual arrangements are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or our existing or future PRC operating subsidiaries or operating affiliates fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, and the Ministry of Commerce, which regulates foreign investments in China, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • imposing fines or other monetary penalties on our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of any offering or from other sources to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in additional administrative and legal costs, less favorable business relationships or other regulatory burdens or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. If the PRC government finds that the ownership structure of our operating affiliates violates PRC laws as a result of the change in Jason Nanchun Jiang’s citizenship, we could be subject to severe penalties, and our ability to conduct our business may be affected in a material and adverse way. Jason Nanchun Jiang, who is one of the shareholders of Focus Media Advertisement, one of our major PRC operating affiliates, which owns all other PRC operating affiliates that hold the advertising operating licenses connected with our operating businesses, completed naturalization procedures to become a citizen of Singapore in the second quarter of 2009 for personal reasons. The “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the New M&A Rule, promulgated by six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was revised in 2009, provides that change in the citizenship of a shareholder of a PRC domestic company does not change the nature of such PRC domestic company. Further, based on our enquiries and discussions with the relevant official of the local branch of the SAIC in Shanghai, we have also been orally informed that Jason Nanchun Jiang’s change in citizenship does not change the nature of our PRC operating affiliates. However, there is no guarantee that governmental authorities, mainly including the SAIC and the Ministry of Commerce, will not challenge such status due to change in law or change in implementation of relevant laws or for any other reason. If the ownership structure of our PRC operating affiliates is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, mainly including the SAIC and the Ministry of Commerce, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • imposing fines or other monetary penalties on our PRC operating affiliates; • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC operating affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC operating affiliates’ operations; • requiring our PRC operating affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in additional administrative and legal costs, less favorable business relationships or other regulatory burdens or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. We use contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their shareholders for a portion of our China operations, and uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements and thus our ability to conduct our business. We have in the past used contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their respective shareholders to operate a portion of our advertising business. We have transferred the majority of our operations to our subsidiaries since 2009. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see the sections titled “Organizational Structure” “Business Overview — Recent Developments” in Item 4. “Information on the Company” and “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. 9 Table of Contents For example, the PRC Property Rights Law that was promulgated on March 16, 2007 and became effective on October 1, 2007 requires that registration with the local SAIC is necessary to create security interest on equity interest in a PRC company, which means that before the equity pledge is duly registered with the local SAIC, the equity pledge is unenforceable even though the relevant equity pledge agreement is still binding. Almost all our existing equity pledge agreements between certain of our operating subsidiaries and certain of our operating affiliates and their shareholders were signed before the PRC Property Rights Law took effect. The relevant PRC operating affiliates registered the equity pledges on their registry of shareholders according to then applicable law. The Company attempted to register the relevant equity pledges after the PRC Property Rights Law became effective and we have successfully registered the equity pledge in connection with Focus Media Advertisement, one of our major PRC operating affiliates, which owns all other PRC operating affiliates that hold the advertising operating licenses connected with our operating businesses in December 2010 and certain other PRC operating affiliates with the local SAIC. However, the implementation rules were not promulgated until late 2008 and in some cities late 2009, and the practices taken by the local SAIC authorities vary from city to city. Thus, we are still in the process of applying for registration of other relevant equity pledges and there is no assurance that we can have these equity pledges registered on time or at all. We have completed the registration of four pledges with the local counterparts of the SAIC, and are in the process of registering an additional nine pledges. Considering that we have not registered some of these existing equity pledges, and may fail to register future equity pledges, with the local SAIC, any equity pledge created under these equity pledge agreements may be considered unenforceable. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating affiliates, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Non-performance of the contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their shareholders will result in material and adverse effect in our corporate structure and our business operation. Although we operate a substantive portion of our advertising business through contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their respective shareholders, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our PRC operating affiliates as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of our PRC operating affiliates, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of those companies, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our PRC operating affiliates or any of their shareholders fails to perform its or his respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you to be effective. For example, if any individual designated by us as the shareholder were to refuse to transfer his equity interest in any of our PRC operating affiliates to us or our designee when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if the individual shareholder were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, or if the individual or entity designated by us failed to cause the unrelated third parties holding minority interests in certain of our PRC operating affiliates to waive their right of first refusal or to cooperate with him or it to fulfill his or its contractual obligations, then we may have to take legal action to compel him to fulfill his or its contractual obligations. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against our PRC operating affiliates or its shareholders if they do not perform their obligations under their contracts with us or if any individual who holds the equity interest in our PRC operating affiliates does not cooperate with any such actions. We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our WFOE operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our WFOE operating subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of our WFOE operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements our WFOE operating subsidiaries currently have in place with our PRC operating affiliates in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our WFOE operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC operating subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. 10 Table of Contents Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our PRC operating subsidiaries is also required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In particular, subject to certain cumulative limits, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends. Our WFOE operating subsidiaries have allocated annual after-tax profits to each of their respective reserve funds in compliance with these laws and regulations. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we made total appropriations of $10,765,735, $21,211,346 and $10,214,705 respectively, including the reserve funds of our PRC operating subsidiaries and PRC operating affiliates. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of these restricted portions was approximately $234.1 million. Our PRC operating affiliates have historically not paid dividends to us from their accumulated profits, as we do not own any direct equity interest in these operating affiliates and we do not intend for our operating affiliates to pay dividends to us in the foreseeable future. All of the reserve funds of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates are generally available to us to use in expanding our business in China. Any limitation on the ability of our WFOE operating subsidiaries to receive distributions from their respective subsidiaries or pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. See “Risk Factors — PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. A failure by our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with such regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.” PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated PRC affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our WFOE operating subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated PRC affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • loans by us to our foreign invested enterprises to finance their respective activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange or its local counterpart; and • loans by us in foreign exchange to our PRC operating affiliates and our PRC operating subsidiaries owned by our WFOE operating subsidiaries, which are domestic PRC enterprises, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange or its local counterpart. In practice, it is very difficult if not impossible in most cases, to obtain the approval of or complete the registration regarding our loan to any PRC operating affiliate. 11 Table of Contents We may also determine to finance our PRC foreign invested enterprises by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Because our PRC operating affiliates and our PRC operating subsidiaries owned by our WFOE operating subsidiaries are domestic PRC enterprises, we are not likely to finance their activities by means of direct capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in domestic PRC enterprises, as well as the licensing and other regulatory issues discussed in “Business Overview — Regulatory Matters” of Item 4. “Information on the Company” of this annual report. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC operating affiliates and our PRC operating subsidiaries owned by our WFOE operating subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to expand our business. Furthermore, on August 29, 2008, State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. When applying for conversion of foreign exchange in “capital account”, such as foreign exchange received from capital contribution or loans, into Renminbi, the company is required, except for small amount conversion not exceeding US$50,000 for daily expenses, submit to the bank the relevant documents supporting such conversion, such as the business contracts, related Renminbi payment notice, and documents evidencing the use of funds previously converted from foreign exchange in its capital account. Further, SAFE Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company’s business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority, which is typically the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts, and registered with the local SAIC authority, and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to effectively use the net proceeds from future offerings of our ADRs through our PRC operating subsidiaries as our PRC WFOE operating subsidiaries may not convert the funds received from us or our non-PRC subsidiaries in foreign exchange into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC company or finance the operation or development of our PRC operating affiliates. While the Company is pursuing and will continue pursuing a strategy of development partly through acquisition of other advertising companies, SAFE Circular 142 may adversely affect our liquidity and our liability to fund and expand our business in the PRC. 12 Table of Contents We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New Law, and the implementation regulations to the New Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. The New Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the New Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Further, on April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Tax (“SAT”) issued a Tax Circular, Guoshuifa [2009] No. 82 on Certain Issues regarding the Determination of Offshore Companies Controlled by PRC Companies as Resident Enterprises pursuant to “De Facto Management Bodies” Standard, or Circular 82, which took effect on January 1, 2008. According to Circular 82, any company established pursuant to laws and regulations other than PRC laws but that is controlled by companies or company groups within China shall be deemed as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following conditions are met: (i) the senior management in charge of the daily operation and management of the company is based within China or the premises where the senior management performs its duties are located within China; (ii) the financial matters (such as raising funds, financing or financial risk management) and human resources matters (such as appointment and dismissal of employees or their payrolls) are decided by companies or individuals within China or require approval from companies or individuals within China; (iii) primary property, books and accounts, company seals and board and shareholder meeting minutes are kept or placed within China; and (iv) 50% or more of the directors with voting rights or senior management habitually reside within China. According to Circular 82, in determining the location of de facto management, “substance over form” principle should be followed. On July 27, 2011, SAT issued a notice of Interim Measures on Corporate Income Tax of Offshore Companies Controlled by PRC Companies as Resident Enterprises, which took effect on September 1, 2011. It further implements Circular 82 in detail, as well as clarifying that SAT or its local competent branch shall investigate an entity once it discovers such entity may satisfy the conditions set out in Circular 82, including requesting such entity to provide all relevant materials requested. Although Circular 82 was issued to regulate the PRC tax resident judgment of companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in Circular 82 and the investigating approach SAT may take as set out in its implementation measures may be used as references to the SAT’s view on this issue. Most of our major board decisions, such as those relating to strategic planning, significant investments, raising fund and all matters related to capital market activities are made outside of the PRC. We have an office in Hong Kong and appointed a General Manager of Sales in July 2010, who habitually resides in Hong Kong. Our Chief Financial Officer, appointed in January 2010, also spends most of his time in our office located in Hong Kong and is in charge of the Company’s investments, financial management, internal control and compliance. In addition, our senior management spends a significant amount of time outside of the PRC developing and managing investor relations. As such, we believe that the de facto management body of the Company is located outside of the PRC, and, accordingly, we believe the risk of being deemed a PRC tax resident is low. However, there is uncertainty regarding whether PRC tax authorities would deem us to be a PRC resident enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income, which would have an adverse effect on our effective tax rate and net income. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. A failure by us or our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with such regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, and SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities and subsequent round trip investment into China. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under such SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest over the assets located in China. The SAFE regulations also impose obligations on onshore subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company to coordinate with and supervise the beneficial owners of the offshore entity who are PRC residents to complete the SAFE registration process. If any PRC resident fails to comply with such SAFE regulations, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions, such as fines. As a Cayman Islands company, and therefore a foreign entity, PRC residents who are beneficial holders of our shares are required to register with SAFE in connection with their investment in us. Moreover, if we purchase the assets or equity interest of company owned by PRC residents in exchange for our equity interests, such PRC residents will be subject to the registration procedures described in such SAFE regulations. 13 Table of Contents These regulations may affect our financial status, business operations or strategies. For example, our present or future PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with such SAFE registration requirements by relevant PRC residents, over whom we have no control. We require our shareholders who are PRC residents or have PRC residents as its beneficial owner to comply with these SAFE regulations. However, we may not be fully informed of the identities of all our beneficial shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents, and we cannot compel our beneficial shareholders to comply with SAFE regulations. We cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents have complied or will comply with our request to make or obtain any registrations or approvals required under these regulations or other related legislation. Furthermore, much uncertainty remains concerning the reconciliation of these regulations with other approval requirements. It is unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. Jason, Nanchun Jiang, who is a major beneficial owner of our company and a PRC resident under these SAFE regulations, has completed initial registration with SAFE. Due to frequent acquisitions and dispositions by the Company of its businesses which trigger the requirement on the subsequent registrations and filings with SAFE in accordance with these regulations, the complexity in registration requirements and time required for such registration and filing procedures, it is difficult to complete all the subsequent registrations and filings in a timely manner. As a result, Jason Nanchun Jiang has in the past failed and may fail in the future, to make subsequent registrations and filings for some of subsequent investments and other material changes in the offshore company in accordance with these regulations. One primary legal consequence of failure to make SAFE registration is the restriction by SAFE on the remittance of funds between onshore PRC entities to offshore non-PRC entities. Such activities are most commonly conducted by direct subsidiaries of offshore non-PRC entities. Indirect subsidiaries that are owned by other PRC entities are not likely to engage in such fund transfers, and accordingly SAFE registration is not always carried out by indirect PRC subsidiaries that will not engage in fund remittances involving offshore non-PRC entities. In the past five years, we have made acquisitions of approximately 60 legal entities, including the conversion of some of our former PRC operating affiliates to indirect PRC operating subsidiaries, which may require registration or filing with the local SAFE. Among these acquisitions, 12 have been registered or filed with the local authority of SAFE, and most of the significant acquisitions with transaction values over US$50 million have been registered or filed. As most of the acquired legal entities that have not completed SAFE registration became indirect PRC operating subsidiaries directly owned by our other PRC operating subsidiaries, they will only distribute dividends directly to PRC entities. While it is difficult to predict if SAFE will strengthen the enforcement of its regulations in the future to include dividend distributions from PRC entities to PRC entities who are ultimately owned by offshore holding companies, we believe that onshore dividend distributions are unlikely to be subject to SAFE’s scrutiny and, therefore, penalties from SAFE. Four of our active WFOE operating subsidiaries are directly owned by overseas parent companies and may distribute dividends to them from time to time. Two of these four active WFOE operating subsidiaries have already been registered or filed with the local authority of SAFE. We also intend to register or file Focus Media (China) Information Technology Co., Ltd. and Chizhong Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. with the local authority of SAFE in the future to comply with SAFE regulations and facilitate dividend distributions from the active WFOE operating subsidiaries to their respective offshore parent companies. Furthermore, relevant SAFE implementation rules promulgated in 2007, as revised in 2011, require foreign-invested enterprises to disclose the ultimate ownership in them by PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to SAFE when they apply for the initial foreign exchange registration. In practice, SAFE may require foreign-invested enterprises to make such disclosure as well when they make subsequent foreign exchange registration in relation to their capital increase. Given these requirements, we typically engage an outside agent for the purposes of filing foreign exchange registrations on behalf of our subsidiaries. Despite these efforts, such disclosure was not made when one of our WFOE operating subsidiaries applied for its initial foreign exchange registration and when another WFOE operating subsidiary filed a subsequent foreign exchange registration in relation to its capital increase. The existing and future failures by our WFOE operating subsidiaries to make such disclosure may inhibit their ability to pay dividends to us. The failure or inability of us or our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with these regulations may subject us to fines and other legal sanctions although no legal or administrative sanctions have been taken against us so far. In particular, regarding the dividends distributed by our WFOE operating subsidiaries prior to the completion of subsequent registrations by our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners, SAFE may, at its discretion, choose to order our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to complete the necessary subsequent registration, to order our WFOE operating subsidiaries to procure the wiring of the foreign exchange back to the PRC in an amount equal to the dividends previously distributed, and to impose monetary fines in an amount up to that of the dividends so distributed. If any of such penalties are imposed, our business operations and financial status could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the non-compliance may also restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our ability to inject additional capital into our PRC WFOE subsidiaries and the ability of our PRC WFOE subsidiaries, to make distributions or pay dividends, or materially and adversely affect our ownership structure in which case, our acquisition strategy, business operations and financial status and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. And such SAFE regulations may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. See “Exchange Controls” in Item 10. “Additional Information” in this annual report. 14 Table of Contents A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of shares and share options held by our employees who are PRC residents may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan, through such overseas-listed company’s PRC subsidiary or branch located in the PRC, any other PRC entity that is under control of such overseas-listed company or other qualified PRC agents, or collectively the PRC agent, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan and to open a special foreign currency account and apply for fund transfer and conversion into RMB. More specifically, the PRC agent will have to apply for the annual quota of fund transfer and currency conversion, including transferring of overseas share sale proceeds to the PRC and converting such proceeds from US dollars to RMB. In addition, an offshore entity is required to be appointed to act as trustee to handle share transfer transactions or options exercises relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. We and our PRC resident employees who have been granted share options, or PRC option holders, are subject to these rules. We attempted to comply with these rules. The initial SAFE registration of the share option or other share incentive plan was completed in April 2011 with quota for the year ended December 31, 2011 being granted by the SAFE at the same time. We are currently in the process of applying for quota for the year ended December 31, 2012. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules in a timely manner or at all, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including corporate chops and seals fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and the authority of persons to execute contracts on our behalf is subject to our memorandum and articles of association. No person may execute contracts on our behalf unless authorized to do so by our board of directors or someone who had been delegated power by the board to provide authorizations on the board’s behalf. Our company seal is held by our legal department. In the event that our company seal is used to execute a contract without our board’s authorization, we may still be bound by the contract on the basis that the person who executed the contract had implied or ostensible authority to execute the contract on our behalf as he possessed our company seal. In the event that our company seal becomes lost, this would not prevent us from being able to execute contracts as there is no requirement under Cayman Islands law for our contracts to be executed under seal. However, if the company seal were lost we would need to apply for a replacement. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC. We generally execute legal documents with chops or seals, rather than the signatures of the designated legal representatives. We generally use corporate chops for executing documents to be submitted to government agencies, including in applications for changing business scope, directors, or company name, and for legal letters. We generally use contract chops for executing leases, and supply and sales contracts. We generally use finance chops for making and collecting payments, including, but not limited to issuing invoices. Use of corporate chops and contract chops for our company, our PRC operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates must be approved by our legal department in Shanghai. Use of finance chops for our company, our PRC operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates must be approved by our finance department in Shanghai. The chops of our PRC operating subsidiaries and PRC operating affiliates incorporated in Shanghai are generally held by the legal and finance departments in Shanghai. The chops of our PRC operating subsidiaries and PRC operating affiliates incorporated in other cities in China are generally held locally by the finance department of the relevant entities so that original documents can be executed locally. Although we usually utilize chops to enter into contracts, the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops. All designated legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries and PRC affiliates are members of our senior management team who owe us fiduciary duties. Accordingly, there is a risk that employees in our legal or finance department or the relevant designated legal representatives could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the company with contracts against the company’s interest or intentions which could result in economic harm or damages as a result of any contractual obligations, or resulting disputes, that might arise. If the party contracting with the company did not act in good faith under such circumstances, then we could incur costs to nullify such contracts. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, they are generally stored in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the legal or finance departments. Our designated legal representatives generally do not have access to the chops, but if such designated legal representatives were to obtain the chops, in spite of these protections, then we may encounter difficulties in maintaining control over the relevant entities. Although we monitor such employees and the designated legal representatives, such procedures may not be able to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. If the designated legal representative obtains control of the chop in an effort to obtain control over the entity, we would need to pass a new shareholder or board resolution to designate a new legal representative and we would need to take legal action to seek the return of the chops, apply for a new chop with the relevant authorities (when relevant authorities accept our application of their discretion), or otherwise seek legal redress for the violation of their fiduciary duties to us. 15 Table of Contents We rely on the company seals, financial chops and business licenses of our PRC entities or our legal representatives for entering into contracts, conducting banking business, or taking official corporate action of any sort including registering any change to the composition of the board or management with the relevant PRC authorities. Accordingly, if any of our legal representatives obtained and misused or misappropriated our corporate chops, seals, business licenses or other controlling intangible assets, whether as a result of an employment or other dispute, such person’s malfeasance or any other reason, we could incur economic damage and disruption to our operations that may necessitate corporate or legal action. Such corporate or legal action could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. In particular, during any period where we lose effective control of the corporate activities as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities of the affected entity could be disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of our business which may negatively impact our business and reputation. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have been named as a defendant in certain purported shareholder class action lawsuits that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We will have to defend against lawsuits described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information — Consolidated statements and other financial information — Legal Proceedings,” including any appeals of such lawsuits should our initial defense be successful. We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome from the lawsuits, including any plaintiff’s appeal of the judgment in these lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such appeal and any adverse outcome of these cases could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity. Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, alleged financial reporting irregularities, increasing regulatory and law enforcement scrutiny, and regulatory action or litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure by us to comply with legal, regulatory and compliance requirements, could result in adverse publicity. For instance, in late 2011 and early 2012 we were subject to significant negative publicity resulting from reports published by a short seller of our ADSs. This negative publicity resulted in significant volatility in the trading price of our ADSs and also led to the filing of a shareholder class action lawsuit against us alleging that our filings and earnings releases contained certain material misstatements and omissions. Such adverse publicity could result in reputational harm, lead to increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers, affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel, affect our ability to maintain access to the capital markets, or have other material adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. 16 Table of Contents We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the provision of advertising services, and advertising is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and advertising trends. Demand for advertising time slots and advertising frame space on our networks, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients, is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and advertising spending typically decreases during periods of economic downturn. Advertisers may reduce the money they spend to advertise on our networks for a number of reasons, including: • a general decline in economic conditions; • a decline in economic conditions in the particular cities where we conduct business; • a decision to shift advertising expenditures to other available advertising media; • a decline in advertising spending in general; or • a decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising services in particular would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our advertising services, and our financial condition and results of operations. Since the second half of 2008, global credit and capital markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have experienced difficult conditions. Although there have been signs of recovery in the United States in early 2012, since late 2009, there have also been growing concerns of another global economic downturn triggered by the failure of certain European countries to finance their budget deficits or service their debt levels. In addition, in early March 2012, China pared its economic growth target to 7.5% from an 8% goal that has been in place since 2005. As a result of such economic downturns, growth in consumer spending in China slowed which resulted in a corresponding slowdown in advertising spending growth. If there is another deterioration in economic conditions, our revenues, net income and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of consumer spending and corresponding advertising trends in China. In addition, advertising spending generally tends to decrease during January and February each year due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate, such as the seasonality of advertising spending in China, the effect of the global economic downturn on spending in China, a further deterioration of economic conditions in China and potential changes to the regulation of the advertising industry in China, are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that quarter relative to our operating results from other quarters. Our failure to maintain existing relationships or obtain new relationships that allow us to place our flat-panel digital displays, advertising poster frames and outdoor traditional and LED digital billboards in desirable locations would harm our business and prospects. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to provide large networks of flat-panel digital displays, advertising poster frames (including digital poster frames), and large outdoor traditional and LED digital billboards, in desirable locations throughout major urban areas in China. We also depend on the ability of our third-party location provider to secure desirable traditional and LED digital billboard locations for our outdoor traditional and LED network. This, in turn, requires that we develop and maintain business relationships with real estate developers, landlords, property managers, hypermarkets, retailers and other businesses and locations in which we rent space for our displays and billboards. Although a majority of our display placement agreements and advertising frame placement agreements have terms ranging from one to five years, and upon expiration give us the right to renew the agreement on terms no less favorable than those offered by competing bidders, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we fail to maintain our relationships with landlords and property managers, or if a significant number of our existing display or advertising frame placement agreements are terminated or not renewed or if we fail to maintain our relationship with our location provider of traditional and LED billboard space, advertisers may find advertising on our networks unattractive and may not wish to purchase advertising time slots or advertising frame space on our networks, which would cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. Under some of our display placement agreements in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Dalian and Chongqing, the property manager has the right to terminate the agreement if landlords or tenants in the building lodge complaints about our flat-panel digital displays. In addition, some of our display placement agreements in other cities allow the property manager to terminate the agreement if we fail to keep each flat-panel digital display operational for a minimum amount of time each year. If these tenants complain about our displays, or if the property manager claims we have failed to keep the flat-panel digital displays operational for the stipulated number of days each year, we may be required to remove our panels from these locations. 17 Table of Contents In accordance with PRC Property Law, landlords enjoy property rights over public areas or facilities of residential or commercial properties. In substantially all cases, we obtain prior approval from relevant landlords or property managers, before installing any of our advertising equipment in a location. For office buildings, in substantially all cases, we obtain prior approval directly from landlords, and only execute placement agreements with property managers that such landlords authorized and designated to us. For supermarkets and convenience stores, in substantially all cases, we obtain consents from and execute placement agreements directly with the market or store owners who have the exclusive right to operate the site. For residential locations, in a majority of cases, we execute placement agreements with property managers and, in a minority of cases, property owners’ committees. If we execute placement agreements with property managers, we require that such property managers obtain proper authorization from the relevant property owners’ committees before we execute such placement agreements. If property managers fail to obtain prior approval from the relevant property owners’ committees and misrepresent such authorization in our placement agreements, we could be required to obtain the approval of the landlord or remove our advertising equipment at our own cost. Since our founding, we have not incurred material costs, fees or penalties as a result of failing to obtain any such approvals prior to installing our advertising equipment nor have we been party to any material dispute or litigation as a result of any such failure. We may not be able to successfully expand our LCD display network, poster frame network and in-store network into new regions or diversify our network into new advertising networks or media platforms, which could harm or reverse our growth potential and our ability to increase our revenues. If we are unable to obtain or retain desirable placement locations for our flat-panel digital displays, advertising poster frames and outdoor traditional and LED billboards movie theater advertising slots on commercially advantageous terms or if the supply of desirable locations diminishes or ceases to expand, we could have difficulty in maintaining or expanding our network, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our location costs, which include lease payments to landlords and property managers under our display placement agreements, maintenance and monitoring fees and other associated costs, comprise a significant portion of our cost of revenues. For 2009, 2010 and 2011, our location costs accounted for 48.9%, 60.7% and 64.6% of our cost of revenues and 29.7%, 26.1% and 23.6% of our total revenues, respectively. In the future, we may need to increase our expenditures on our display and frame placement agreements to obtain new and desirable locations, to renew existing locations, and to secure favorable exclusivity and renewal terms. In addition, lessors of space for our flat-panel digital displays, advertising poster frames and traditional and LED billboards may charge increasingly higher display location lease fees, or demand other compensation arrangements, such as profit sharing. If we are unable to pass increased location costs on to our advertising clients through rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, in more developed cities, it may be difficult to increase the number of desirable locations in our network because most such locations have already been occupied either by us or by our competitors, or in the case of outdoor traditional and LED billboards, because the placement of outdoor installments may be limited by municipal zoning and planning policies. In recently developing cities, the supply of desirable locations may be small and the pace of economic development and construction levels may not provide a steadily increasing supply of desirable commercial and residential locations. If, as a result of these possibilities, we are unable to increase the placement of our advertising networks into commercial and residential locations that advertisers find desirable, we may be unable to expand our client base, sell advertising time slots and poster frame space on our network or increase the rates we charge for time slots and poster frame space, which could decrease the value of our network to advertisers. If we are unable to attract advertisers to advertise on our networks, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees and the demand for time on our networks, which could negatively affect our ability to grow revenues. The amounts of fees we can charge advertisers for time slots on our LCD display network, movie theatre advertising network and traditional billboard network depend on the size and quality of these networks and the demand by advertisers for advertising time on these networks. Advertisers choose to advertise on these networks in part based on the size of the networks and the desirability of the locations where we have placed our flat-panel digital displays and where we lease traditional and LED digital billboards as well as the quality of the services we offer. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of locations, displays and billboards in our networks, diversify advertising channels in our networks, or solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality provider of advertising services, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our networks or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to remain profitable. In addition, the fees we can charge advertisers for frame space on our poster frame network depends on the quality of the locations in which we place advertising poster frames, demand by advertisers for frame space and the quality of our service. If we are unable to continue to secure the most desirable locations for deployment of our advertising poster frames, we may be unable to attract advertisers to purchase frame space on our poster frame network. Our failure to attract advertisers to purchase time slots and frame space on our networks will reduce demand for time slots and frame space on our networks and the number of time slots and amount of frame space we are able to sell, which could necessitate lowering the fees we charge for advertising time on our network and could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues in the future. 18 Table of Contents Acquisitions we have made, and any future acquisitions may expose us to potential risks and have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our integration of acquired entities into our business may not be successful and may not enable us to expand into new advertising platforms as well as we expect. This would significantly affect the expected benefits of these acquisitions. For example, in 2008, we disposed of CGEN’s in-store advertising operations, and discontinued the operations of Focus Media Wireless, both of which were recent acquisitions. These two transactions resulted in impairments losses to our 2008 results of operations. In addition, we discontinued or disposed of certain of our Internet operations in 2009 which resulted in losses to our 2009 results of operations. Moreover, the integration of acquired entities into our operations has required, and will continue to require, significant attention from our management. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, we may face challenges trying to integrate new operations, services and personnel with our existing operations. Our recent acquisitions and possible future acquisitions may also expose us to other potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs, expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and advertising clients as a result of our integration of new businesses and new regulations governing cross-border investment by PRC residents. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from acquiring companies, or that we will not incur costs, including those relating to intangibles or goodwill, in excess of our projected costs for these transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. There may be unknown risks inherent in the acquisitions we have made. Although we have conducted due diligence with respect to the major acquisitions we have undertaken and undertake, we may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the targets of such acquisitions we have made. Any discovery of adverse information concerning any company we have acquired since we acquired such entity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. In addition, even if we are able to evaluate such risks, entities we acquire may not perform as we expected due to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our ability to assess or predict. In some instances we may determine to write-off or dispose of acquired entities that underperform. For example, in 2009 we disposed of certain underperforming entities that operated in our Internet division. We may conduct additional such dispositions or write-offs in the future which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents One or more of our regional distributors could engage in activities that are harmful to our reputation in the industry and to our business. As of December 31, 2011, we covered approximately 33 out of the approximately 114 cities where we provide our LCD display network through contractual arrangements with regional distributors. Under these arrangements, we provide our business model and operating expertise to local advertising companies in exchange for their acting as regional distributors of our advertising services. We also sell our flat-panel digital displays to our regional distributors, who are responsible for developing and maintaining an advertising network in office buildings and other commercial locations in the respective cities where they operate. We also grant our regional distributors the right to use our “Focus Media”, “Framedia” and other brand names and logos. However, our contractual arrangements with our regional distributors do not provide us with control or oversight over their everyday business activities, and one or more of our regional distributors may engage in activities that violate PRC laws and regulations governing the advertising industry and advertising content, or other PRC laws and regulations generally. Some of our regional distributors may not possess all the licenses required to operate an advertising business, or may fail to maintain the licenses they currently hold, which could result in local regulators suspending the operations of the network in those cities. In addition, we do not independently review the advertising content that our regional distributors display on the portion of our LCD display network that they operate independently, and our regional distributors may include advertising content on their part of the LCD display network and violate PRC advertising laws or regulations or expose them and us to lawsuits or result in the revocation of their business license. If any of these events occurs, it could harm our reputation in the industry. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, our management assessed our effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 using the criteria set forth in the report “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or COSO. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that any significant deficiency or material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If, however, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help us to manage the company effectively and prevent fraud. If we are unable to implement solutions to any deficiencies in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. Failure to manage our growth and operations could strain our management, operational and other resources and we may not be able to achieve anticipated levels of growth in the new networks and media platforms we operate, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. To manage our growth and operations, we must develop and improve our existing administrative and operational systems and our financial and management controls and further expand, train and manage our work force. As we continue this effort, we may incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources in connection with any such expansion or to react to more challenging market conditions, due to, among other things, different technology standards, legal considerations and cultural differences. We may not be able to manage our current or future international operations effectively and efficiently or compete effectively in such markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth or changes in our operations, recruit top talent and train our personnel. Any failure to efficiently manage our expansion or changes in operations may materially and adversely affect our business and future growth. 20 Table of Contents As we continue to expand into new networks and new media platforms, we expect the percentage of revenues derived from our LCD display network to decline. However, the new advertising networks and media platforms we pursue may not present the same opportunities for growth that we have experienced with our LCD display network and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that the level of growth of our networks will not decline over time. Moreover, we expect the level of growth of our LCD display network to decrease as many of the more desirable locations have already been leased by us or our competitors. We rely on a small number of suppliers for our LCD display network equipment. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of the equipment used in our LCD display network. In 2011, the majority of our LCD display equipment, in terms or dollars spent, was purchased from one supplier. If, as a result of a change our relationship with our suppliers, for any reason, we can no longer obtain LCD display equipment in the same quantities, or at all, or on favorable terms, we will need to find other suppliers for our LCD display equipment. Such alternative suppliers may not be able to provide equipment of the same or comparable quality as our existing suppliers, may not be as reliable or responsive to our purchase orders and requests, or may otherwise not provide the same level of service as our existing suppliers. As a result, if we are no longer able to source equipment from our current suppliers, our maintenance, enhancement and expansion of our business may be adversely affected. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our out-of-home advertising network, our revenues may be negatively affected and our business may not expand or be successful. The market for out-of-home advertising networks in China is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising spending with many forms of more established advertising media. Our success depends on the acceptance of our out-of-home advertising network by advertisers and their continuing interest in these mediums as components of their advertising strategies. Our success also depends on the viewing public continuing to be receptive towards our advertising network. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that consumers are not receptive to our networks or that our networks do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. Likewise, if consumers find some element of our networks, such as the audio feature of our LCD display, in-store, movie theater and outdoor traditional and LED billboard networks, to be disruptive or intrusive, commercial locations, stores and movie theaters may decide not to place our flat-panel digital displays in their properties or lease us time in movie theaters and advertisers may view our advertising network as a less attractive advertising medium compared to other alternatives. In that event, advertisers may determine to reduce their spending on our advertising network. If a substantial number of advertisers lose interest in advertising on our advertising network for these or other reasons, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to operate our business, and our advertising service revenue, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively affected. We depend on the leadership and services of Jason Nanchun Jiang, who is our founder, executive chairman, chief executive officer and, through JJ Media Investment Holdings Limited, a wholly owned holding company, one of our largest shareholders, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose his services. Our future success is dependent upon the continued service of Jason Nanchun Jiang, our founder, executive chairman, chief executive officer and, through JJ Media Investment Holdings Limited, one of our largest shareholders. We rely on his industry expertise and experience in our business operations, and in particular, his business vision, management skills, and working relationships with our employees, our other major shareholders, many of our clients and landlords and property managers of the locations in our network. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for Mr. Jiang. If he was unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, or if he joined a competitor or formed a competing company in violation of his employment agreement and noncompetition agreement, we may not be able to replace him easily or at all. As a result, our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose his services. 21 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including for working capital and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If these sources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities, could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising services companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to adapt to changing regulatory requirements or advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The market for advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, which may require us to develop new features and enhancements for our advertising network. The majority of our displays use 21-inch and17-inch liquid crystal displays screens. We also have a growing number of displays that use larger LCD and plasma screens as well as large size LED digital billboards. We also upgraded portions of our poster frame network with digital poster LCD displays. Our movie theater network provides advertising time prior to movie screenings by leasing screen time. In the future, subject to relevant PRC laws and regulations, we may use other technology, such as cable or broadband networking, advanced audio technologies and high-definition panel technology. We may be required to incur development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new technology needs but we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund and implement future technological innovations or to replace obsolete technology. Furthermore, we may fail to respond to these changing technology needs. For example, if the use of broadband networking capabilities on our advertising network becomes a commercially viable alternative and meets all applicable PRC legal and regulatory requirements, and we fail to implement such changes on our network or fail to do so in a timely manner, our competitors or future entrants into the market who do take advantage of such initiatives could gain a competitive advantage over us. In addition, the local authorities may issue temporary restriction or prohibition on outdoor advertising at the regional level in light of public events of large scale held locally. For example, the Shanghai local government issued certain local regulations that prohibit advertising on ships (other than cargo ships and ferries) on the Huangpu River and Suzhou Creek area and restrictive rules for applying for outdoor advertising for the period of preparation and hosting of World EXPO 2010, which ended on October 31, 2010. If we cannot succeed in complying with new regulatory requirements or developing and introducing new features on a timely and cost-effective basis, advertiser demand for our advertising networks may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our advertising networks or Internet advertising services network. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute is fair and accurate and is in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. 22 Table of Contents As an advertising service provider, we are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content that is shown on our advertising networks for compliance with applicable law. In addition, each of our regional distributors is obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content shown on the portion of our LCD display network each of them operates. In general, the advertisements shown on our advertising network and the portion of our advertising network operated by our regional distributors have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification of such networks. We and our regional distributors are still separately required to independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying the advertisements. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific product advertisements before broadcasting, we and our regional distributors are separately obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. We employ, and our regional distributors are required under the terms of our agreements with them to employ, qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. In addition, for advertising content related to specific types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we and our distributors are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We endeavor to comply, and encourage our regional distributors to take measures to comply, with such requirements, including by requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. Starting in January 2006, we began to operate a network of advertising poster frames placed primarily in elevators and public areas of residential complexes. The advertisements shown on our poster frame network are defined as print advertisements under PRC laws and regulations and are also subject to the same legal requirements as advertisements shown on our LCD display network. Our reputation will be tarnished and our results of operations may be adversely affected if advertisements shown on our LCD display network, poster frame network, movie theater or outdoor traditional or LED billboard network are provided to us by our advertising clients in violation of relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with such advertising content are not complete or that the advertisements that our regional distributors have procured for broadcasting on our network have not received required approval from the relevant local supervisory bodies or are not content compliant. In addition, we commenced operation of our traditional billboard network in January 2007. The placement and installation of traditional billboards are subject to municipal zoning requirements and governmental approvals, including application for an outdoor advertising registration certificate for each traditional billboard subject to a term of use for a period of time, which is typically no more than two years for traditional billboards. If the existing traditional billboards placed by our location provider or us are required to be removed, the attractiveness of this portion of our advertising network will be diminished. Moreover, failure by an owner of traditional billboards to maintain outdoor advertising registration certificates would result in the inability to lease or market such space for the placement of advertisements. China has also enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet and telecommunications networks that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is pornographic or obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. If any of the content that we deliver through our Internet advertising network is found to violate Chinese laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines or suspensions. Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our advertising network. If consumers find the content displayed on our advertising network to be offensive, landlords, property managers, other location providers or telecommunication network operators may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached through the placement of unauthorized compact flash, or CF cards in our flat-panel digital displays and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our advertising network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure despite our efforts to ensure the security of our content management system. Any such event may also damage our reputation. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or accurate, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our advertising network. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our advertising displays or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business. 23 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may adversely affect our business and reputation. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with all our employees. We cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, third parties. We are in the process of registering in China many of the trademarks used in our business. We cannot assure you that any of our trademark applications will ultimately proceed to registration or will result in registration with scope adequate for our business. Some of our pending applications or registrations may be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark applications are not successful, we may have to use different marks for affected services or technologies, or enter into arrangements with any third parties who may have prior registrations, applications or rights, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. We compete with other advertising companies in China. We compete for advertising clients primarily on the basis of network size and coverage, location, price, the range of services that we offer and our brand name. We also face competition from other out-of-home television advertising network operators for access to the most desirable locations in cities in China. Individual buildings, hotels, restaurants and other commercial locations and hypermarket, supermarket and convenience store chains may also decide to independently, or through third-party technology providers, install and operate their own flat-panel television advertising screens. Our in-store network faces competition with similar networks operated by domestic out-of-home advertising companies. We also compete for overall advertising spending with other alternative advertising media companies, such as Internet, wireless communications, street furniture, billboard, frame and public transport advertising companies, and with traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, television, magazines and radio. In the future, we may also face competition from new entrants into the out-of-home television advertising sector. Our sector is characterized by relatively low fixed costs and, as is customary in the advertising industry, we do not have exclusive arrangements with our advertising clients. In addition, since December 10, 2005, wholly foreign-owned advertising companies are allowed to operate in China, which may expose us to increased competition from international advertising media companies attracted to opportunities in China. Increased competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and result in a loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources, or exclusive arrangements with desirable locations, and others may successfully mimic and adopt our business model. Moreover, increased competition will provide advertisers with a wider range of media and advertising service alternatives, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues, gross margins and profits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. We do not maintain any business liability disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations, and any business liability, disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 24 Table of Contents We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2011, we do not expect to be a PFIC for 2012, and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we were a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under United States federal income tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the then market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. Furthermore, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between us and our consolidated VIEs will be treated for the purpose of the PFIC rules. If it is determined that we do not own the stock of our consolidated variable interest entities for United States federal income tax purposes (for instance, because the relevant PRC authorities do not respect these arrangements), we would likely be treated as a PFIC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2012 or any future taxable year. For more information on PFICs, see “Item 10.E Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation”. Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our tax exemption, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into among our subsidiaries and operating affiliates are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation” for a discussion of the transactions referred to above. In compliance with existing PRC law, our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates have filed with the relevant tax authorities on an annual basis a report disclosing any related party transactions. As of the date of this Form 20-F, we have not received any order or notice from the PRC tax authorities requiring an upward adjustment of our tax liability or otherwise challenging any related party transaction. However, there can be no assurance that the PRC tax authorities will not conduct an audit or issue any negative order with respect to any related party transaction in the future. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that any of our PRC operating subsidiaries or affiliated entities are ineligible for their tax exemptions or an order by the PRC tax authorities that requires an upward adjustment on taxation or any interest on late payments or other penalties should be imposed would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. As a result of this risk, you should evaluate our results of operations and financial condition without regard to these tax savings. Our business operations may be affected by legislative or regulatory changes. There are no existing PRC laws or regulations that specifically define or regulate out-of-home digital media. Changes in laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws and regulations governing placement or content of out-of-home advertising, our business licenses or otherwise affecting our business in China may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. An example of regulatory changes that affected our business was the introduction of “anti-spam” rules governing the sending of SMS messages without a user’s consent. These changes in rules governing wireless services contributed to a market environment that eventually contributed to our decision to terminate our mobile handset advertising network in April and December 2008. Further, in 2009, in response to a regulation promulgated by Shanghai Municipality Government in early 2009, regarding the operation of boat-based advertising platform on the Huangpu River, we suspended operation of the LED billboard aboard a boat we had purchased as an advertising platform on the Huangpu River. Accordingly, we recorded an aggregate impairment loss of $12.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, consisting of a $3.2 million impairment of acquired intangible assets and a $9.5 million impairment of the boat and LED equipment, as, following renovations and outfitting of the boat for non-passenger and non-cargo services and an eight-month solicitation effort to use the boat for advertising purposes in other markets, we were unable to find a suitable alternative market where the boat could be put to active use. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. 25 Table of Contents The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, under current PRC regulations, since December 10, 2005, foreign entities have been allowed to directly own 100% of a PRC advertising business if the foreign entity has at least three years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China, or to directly own less than 100% of a PRC advertising business if the foreign entity has at least two years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China. This may encourage foreign advertising companies with more experience, greater technological know-how and more extensive financial resources than we have to compete against us and limit the potential for our growth. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in order to slow down specific segments of China’s economy which it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Each of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates is subject to PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our operating affiliates. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operation. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the advertising industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, including our ability to enforce our agreements with Focus Media Advertisement and its subsidiaries and shareholders, and other foreign investors, including you. If tax benefits currently available to us in PRC were no longer available, our effective income tax rates for our PRC operations could increase. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands where no income taxes are imposed. We generated substantially all our net income from our PRC operations. Our China operations are conducted through various subsidiaries and operating affiliates. Prior to January 1, 2008, pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, our subsidiaries and operating affiliates were generally subject to EIT at a statutory rate of 33%. 26 Table of Contents The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New Law, and the implementation regulations to the New Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the New Law, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including domestically-owned enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. There is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, which received preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities prior to January 1, 2008. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the New Law subject to relevant transaction rules. Enterprises that were entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments may be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises that qualify as “High and New Technology Enterprise” (“HNTE”) are entitled to a 15% enterprise income tax rate. Further, Notice of the State Council concerning Implementation of Transitional Tax Incentives for HNTE newly-established in Special Economic Zones and Shanghai Pudong New Area (“Circular 40”) allows high tech companies established in the Special Economic Zones and Shanghai Pudong New Area to enjoy enterprise income tax exemption for the first to second year and half-rate of 25% statutory rate for the third to fifth year. Most of the Company’s PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates have completed transition from 33% to 25% starting from January 1, 2008. Those that enjoyed a lower tax rate of 15% before January 1, 2008 will gradually transition to the uniform tax rate of 25% from 2008 to 2012 unless they obtain the HNTE status under the New Law. Among the subsidiaries and VIEs, Beijing Focus Media Wireless Co., Ltd. was qualified for the transitional rule under Circular 39 and thus enjoyed 0% for 2008 and enjoy a 50% reduction off the tax rate from 2009 through 2011. Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Beijing Focus Media Wireless Co., Ltd., was subject to a preferential tax rate of 10%, 11% and 12%, respectively. Focus Media (China) Information Technology Co., Ltd. was incorporated on August 22, 2008 in one of the specific areas designated by the State Council, and obtained the HNTE qualification on June 22, 2010. Therefore, Focus Media (China) Information Technology Co., Ltd. is exempted from the EIT for the two years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 and will enjoy a 50% tax deduction for the next three years. We cannot assure you that the tax authorities will not, in the future, discontinue any of our preferential tax treatments, potentially with retroactive effect. The discontinuation of our preferential tax treatments or the change of the applicable preferential tax rate could materially increase our tax obligations. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The New Law, and the implementation regulations for the New Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. The New Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% will be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. Pursuant to the New Law, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends and royalty fees we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our WFOE operating subsidiaries in China are subject to the 10% withholding tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the New Law. If we are required under the New Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement in October 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements with other countries or regions. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. We cannot assure you that any dividends to be distributed by our WFOE operating subsidiaries to our non-PRC subsidiaries who are their respective overseas parent companies, will be entitled to the benefits under the relevant tax treaties or other similar tax arrangements. 27 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. It is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the New Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The New Law also provides that dividend income between “qualified resident enterprises” is exempted income, which may imply that dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries would be exempt from income tax if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such treatment for dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, if we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the New Law, a foreign investor in us may be able to claim the benefits of any income tax treaty between his or her resident country and China. We cannot assure you, however, that treaty benefits will be available to you (for example with respect to the withholding tax rate on dividends) even if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise. Our PRC operating subsidiaries and operating affiliates may have engaged in business activities without the necessary registration with local authorities. This could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could negatively impact our revenues or interfere with our ability to operate our business. According to relevant PRC laws, a company shall conduct business within its business scope and make supplementary registration with the relevant company registration authority if the company expands or changes its business operation. Furthermore, a company that sets up a branch to conduct an advertising business in a location where it is not registered must register with the local branch of the SAIC. As our business expands, some of our indirect operating subsidiaries or our operating affiliates may fail to register with the relevant local branch of SAIC for their expansion of business or for their branch offices in each of the cities where we operate and, as a result, we may be subject to administrative order for rectification and penalties for failing to register. These penalties may include, fines, disgorgement of profits or revocation of business license of our operating subsidiaries or our operating affiliates, although we believe that, as a matter of practice, the authorities typically impose an extreme penalty only after repeated warnings are ignored or where a violation is blatant and continuous. Because of the discretionary nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to these penalties as a result of violations of the requirement to register with the local branches of SAIC for our local branch offices or for our expansion of business, or that these penalties would not substantially inhibit our ability to operate our business. We may in the future need to procure an Internet content provider, or ICP, license in connection with the operations of our newly acquired operating affiliate, Enjoy Media. If it is determined that such license is required and we are unable to successfully procure such license, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions In 2011, we acquired a controlling interest in Enjoy Media, a start-up company that is mainly engaged in the research and development of Q.com.cn (which focuses on distribution of electronic coupons), and related mobile phone applications. Under applicable PRC regulations relating to Internet information services, an ICP is required either (i) to obtain an ICP license from the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, if it engages in a profitable online service, or (ii) to make a filing with the MIIT if it engages in a non-profitable online service. As of the date of this annual report, no significant revenue has been generated by Enjoy Media. As a result, we made the requisite filing with the MIIT in 2011 with respect to Q.com.cn. However, the distinction between profitable and non-profitable online service is unclear in practice and our online distribution of electronic coupons may be deemed as a profitable online service by the relevant authorities. In addition, our future business plan for Enjoy Media may involve businesses which are more commonly regarded as profitable online services. To ensure full compliance with PRC laws and regulations, we will apply for an ICP license if the authorities deems us to be a profitable ICP or our future business direction requires us to. If we are required to apply for an ICP license and are not successful in acquiring such license, Enjoy Media could face fines or other sanctions. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition and disposition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on us or your disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Our operations and transactions are subject to review by the PRC tax authorities pursuant to relevant PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, in connection with the New Law, the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Under the two circulars, we and certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates may be subject to additional income tax on capital gains generated from their disposition of relevant equity interests in 2009 and 2010. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 59 and Circular 698 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make such adjustment, our income tax costs will be increased. 28 Table of Contents By promulgating and implementing the circulars, the PRC tax authorities have strengthened their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the PRC State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore holding vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose and thus impose PRC income tax to a transfer of equity in an offshore company. Further, non-resident enterprises may be required to file with the PRC tax authorities to report their indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident company if the transferred offshore holding vehicles are incorporated in a tax jurisdiction where the effective income tax rate is less than 12.5% or if the income of its residents derived outside of such jurisdiction is free of income tax. It is not clear to what extent the holders of our shares or ADS will be subject to these requirements. We have conducted and may conduct acquisitions and dispositions involving complex corporate structures, but we may not be able to make timely filing with the PRC tax authorities as requested. The PRC tax authorities may, at their discretion, impose or adjust the capital gains on us for any of our historical or future acquisitions and dispositions or on the holders of our shares or ADSs for their disposition of our shares or ADSs or request us or the holders of our shares or ADSs to submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any relevant acquisitions or disposition, and cause us or the holders of our shares or ADSs to incur additional costs. PRC rules on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was revised in 2009. The New M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for the listing purpose through acquisition of a PRC domestic entity and controlled by PRC residents should obtain approval from the CSRC prior to publicly listing its securities on an overseas stock market. Based on consultation with the International Department of the CSRC regarding its interpretation of the New M&A Rule, our PRC counsel, Global Law Office, advised us that the CSRC approval was not required for the listing of our ADSs on Nasdaq Global Market and subsequent offerings. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agency, including the Ministry of Commerce or other applicable departments of the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was, or will be, required for future offerings of our ADSs on Nasdaq Global Market, and we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from any offering of our ADSs into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. 29 Table of Contents The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In addition, on August 25 2011, the PRC Ministry of Commerce promulgated the Rules of the Ministry of Commerce on the Implementation of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the Ministry of Commerce Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular 6. Under the Ministry of Commerce Security Review Rules, a national security review is required for certain mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors that raise concerns regarding national defense and security. Foreign investors are prohibited from circumventing the national security review requirements by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. The application and interpretation of the Ministry of Commerce Security Review Rules remain unclear. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule and Ministry of Commerce Security Review Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, each of our WFOE operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not further limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect the ability of each of WFOE operating subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. It may also restrict our ability to remit amounts overseas including to our Cayman Islands holding company. If we transfer amounts to overseas accounts, it may be deemed a dividend paid on profits which is subject to PRC taxation, which could affect the feasibility and efficiency of conducting actions overseas, such as issuing dividends to shareholders, conducting share repurchase programs or otherwise. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Since July 2005, the Renminbi is no longer pegged solely to the U.S. dollar. Instead, it is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. This change in policy has resulted in the gradual increase in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar over time. As of December 30, 2011, the Renminbi had appreciated approximately 31.5% against the U.S. dollar since July 21, 2005. On April 20, 2012, the Renminbi was valued against the U.S. dollar at approximately RMB6.3080 to the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue in the future which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by epidemics, natural disasters and other catastrophes From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. In addition, many countries, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. This disease, which is spread through poultry populations, is capable in some circumstances of being transmitted to humans and is often fatal. In April 2009, an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, also commonly referred to as “swine flu”, occurred in Mexico and spread to other countries. Cases of swine flu were reported in Hong Kong and mainland China. A new outbreak of SARS or an outbreak of avian or swine flu may result in health or other government authorities requiring the closure of our offices or other businesses, including office buildings, retail stores and other commercial venues, which comprise the primary locations where we provide our LCD display and poster frame advertising services. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, an outbreak of avian or swine flu or a development of a similar health hazard in China, may deter people from congregating in public places, including a range of commercial locations such as office buildings and retail stores. Such occurrences could severely impact the value of our LCD display and poster frame networks to advertisers, significantly reduce the advertising time purchased by advertisers and severely disrupt our business and operations. In addition, losses caused by epidemics, natural disasters and other catastrophes, including earthquakes or typhoons, are either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against in China. 30 Table of Contents Similarly, war (including the potential of war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), natural disasters, social unrest, geopolitical uncertainty or international conflict may also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared in contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis, and as a result, our operational continuity may be adversely and materially affected and our reputation may be harmed. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other audit firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors in our ADSs may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections of our auditors. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors in our ADSs may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Our Trading Markets The price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. From July 13, 2005 to April 26, 2012, the closing prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of $5.12 to a high of $65.10 per ADS and the last reported sale price on April 26, 2012 was $23.72. From July 13, 2005 until April 10, 2007, we used an ADS-to-share ratio of one-to-10. Starting April 11, 2007, we reduced this ratio to five-to-one. All ADS trading prices on the Nasdaq set forth in this annual report, including historical trading and closing prices, have been adjusted to reflect the new ADS-to-share ratio of one-to-five. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. The financial markets in general, and the market prices for many PRC companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our advertising network could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain Nasdaq corporate governance standards applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirement for shareholder approval for the issuance of shares to officers or directors in a private placement at a price less than market value of the shares, which is considered a form of equity compensation. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. 31 Table of Contents The Nasdaq Listing Rules in general require listed companies to follow a stipulated set of corporate governance practices. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the Nasdaq Listing Rules, including, among others, the shareholder approval rules. Under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5635(c), shareholder approval is required prior to the issuance of securities when a stock option or purchase plan is to be established or materially amended or other equity compensation arrangement made or materially amended, pursuant to which stock may be acquired by officers, directors, employees, or consultants, subject to certain exceptions. This includes the issuance of shares to officers or directors in a private placement at a price less than market value, which is considered a form of equity compensation. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require shareholder approval for the issuance of shares to officers or directors in a private placement at a price less than the greater of book value and market value, provided that the directors consider the issue price represents fair value for the shares being issued. We currently rely upon the relevant home country exemption in lieu of the requirement for shareholder approval of such share issuances. For example, in connection with the subscription for our ordinary shares by JJ Media Investment Holding Limited (an entity owned by Jason Nanchun Jiang) in September 2009, our audit committee approved a price equal to the per-share equivalent average trading price of our ADSs during the twenty days prior to the subscription date, which in the event was slightly lower than market value but which our directors considered to represent fair value. As a result, you may receive less shareholder protection from dilution and other matters than if we were not a foreign private issuer. We have in the past failed to comply with Nasdaq Listing Rules, including the timely filing of our annual report and maintaining a majority of independent directors on our board of directors. Our failure to timely file our 2006 annual report on Form 20-F subjected us to delisting review by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. In addition, in the past we previously failed to maintain a majority of independent directors on our board of directors, which put us out of compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605. See “Management”. On October 4, 2007, we received a letter from Nasdaq Listing Qualifications notifying us that we had regained compliance with all Nasdaq listing qualifications by filing our annual report for 2006. Our historical failure to comply with Nasdaq Listing Rules has on one occasion subjected us to delisting review. If for any reason we fail to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rules in the future, we could be subject to additional delisting procedures and sanctions, which could affect our reputation and the market value of our securities, and could result in shareholder litigation, which may divert the attention of our management and force us to expend resources to defend against such claims. Any litigation may have a material and adverse effect on our business and future results of operations. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares is beneficially owned by JJ Media Investment Holding Limited, an entity owned by Jason Nanchun Jiang, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and as a result, he may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of his shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. Jason Nanchun Jiang beneficially owns approximately 17.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares through his investment entity JJ Media Investment Holding Limited. Accordingly, Jason Nanchun Jiang has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition, Mr. Jiang has historically entered into agreements involving shares in Focus Media. For instance, on September 10, 2010, Mr. Jiang (through his wholly-owned subsidiary JJ Media Investment Holding Limited, or JJ Media) entered into three Capped Call Transactions, which transactions were subsequently amended on June 22, 2011, September 22, 2011 and November 25, 2011. Mr. Jiang (through JJ Media) entered into the Capped Call Transactions in order to gain synthetic economic exposure to Focus Media shares over time. Such Capped Call Transactions are cash-settled and settlement will not affect Mr. Jiang or JJ Media’s ownership of shares. Concurrently with entering into such Capped Call Transactions, JJ Media received aggregate proceeds of approximately $153.1 million as the selling shareholder in an underwritten public offering of 8.1 million ADSs, representing approximately 5.7% of our total outstanding share capital at the time. Mr. Jiang also made an US$11.0 million block trade purchase of our ADSs on November 22, 2011, representing approximately 0.5% of our total outstanding share capital at the time. Accordingly, Mr. Jiang has historically entered, and may continue to enter, into transactions relating to his holdings in Focus Media in connection with his personal investments and financing activities. Mr. Jiang has repeatedly affirmed his commitment to Focus Media and we expect that he will remain a major shareholder in Focus Media. All transactions he enters into are made pursuant to our securities trading policy and relevant U.S. securities laws and are disclosed in Mr. Jiang’s filings under Form 13D to provide relevant disclosure to investors. 32 Table of Contents Further, Jason Nanchun Jiang is also one of three shareholders of certain of our affiliated PRC entities with which we have contractual arrangements that are essential to our business. The continuing cooperation of these PRC affiliated entities, and their shareholders, branches and subsidiaries, is important to our business. Without Jason Nanchun Jiang’s consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions or conducting business that could be beneficial to us. Accordingly, Mr. Jiang’s control of Focus Media Advertisement could hinder any change in control of our business, particularly where such change of control would benefit shareholders other than Mr. Jiang. It would be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if any disputes arise between us and Mr. Jiang or if he fails to carry out his contractual and fiduciary obligations to us. Thus, Jason Nanchun Jiang’s interests as an officer and employee may differ from his interests as a shareholder or from the interests of our other shareholders, including you. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage any hostile acquisition attempt by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if the Board of Directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. In addition, some actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve terms of three years each, which terms are not staggered. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of an action, such as a merger or other change of control, which could be in the interest of our shareholders. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 33 Table of Contents Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, and as such we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. domestic public companies, including reporting requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Because we qualify as a foreign private issuer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the securities rules and regulations in the United States that are applicable to U.S. domestic issuers, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents, or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the sections of the Exchange Act, including Section 16, requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time; and • the selective disclosure rules by issuers of material non-public information under Regulation FD. We will be required to file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, we intend to publish our results on a quarterly basis as press releases, distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations of Nasdaq. Press releases relating to financial results and material events will also be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. However, the information we are required to file with or furnish to the SEC will be less extensive and less timely compared to that required to be filed with the SEC by U.S. domestic issuers. As a result, you may not be afforded the same protections or information that would be made available to you were you investing in a U.S. domestic issuer. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. 34 Table of Contents The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 