D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our failure to timely file the 2006 annual report on Form 20-F as a result of allegations raised by an anonymous investor holding a short position in our ADSs may subject us to shareholder litigation and delisting review, either of which may materially and adversely affect our business. As a result of the Audit Committee investigation of allegations raised by attorneys representing an anonymous investor, we failed to timely file our 2006 annual report on Form 20-F. The unnamed investor, described as currently holding a short position in our ADSs, alleged that: (a) Everease, a company previously run by Focus Media’s founder and CEO, Jason Jiang, is a related party as a result of ongoing ties between Everease and Mr. Jiang and members of Mr. Jiang’s family; and (b) Focus Media was making undisclosed rebate payments to a third-party advertising agency through Everease in order to inflate Focus Media’s reported financial performance. The Audit Committee commenced its investigation of the allegations on June 28, 2007. It hired independent U.S. legal counsel and independent forensic accountants, who reviewed documents and interviewed witnesses. Everease and the third-party advertising agency declined investigators’ request to provide access to specified witnesses and documents. On September 25, 2007, the Audit Committee completed its previously disclosed investigation into allegations made by U.S. Counsel to an investor described as holding a short position in our stock. The results of the investigation have been discussed with our independent Registered Public Accounting firm. Based upon its review of the evidence, the Audit Committee concluded that nothing had come to its attention - apart from the initial allegations that gave rise to the investigation - that would cause the Audit Committee to believe that we made undisclosed rebate payments to a third party advertising agency through another advertising agency, namely, Everease. We have informed the investigators that we have concluded that Everease is a related party based upon information developed during the investigation. Based upon its review of the evidence, the Audit Committee concurs with our conclusion that Everease should be deemed a related party. For detailed descriptions of our related party transactions with Everease, see “Item 7 — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions-Transactions with Everease; “ — Other Related Party Transactions-Loan from Relative of Jason Nanchun Jiang.” Our failure to timely file the 2006 annual report on Form 20-F has subjected us to delisting review by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. We received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter on July 10, 2007 that we are not in compliance with the filing requirement for continued listing as set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(12). If the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel decides to delist our ADSs from the Nasdaq Global Market, our share price and business will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of these allegations, we may be subject to shareholder litigation, which may divert the attention of our management and force us to expend resources to defend against such claims. Any litigation may have a material and adverse effect on our business and future results of operations. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We began operations of our commercial location network in May 2003. In addition, we have operated our in-store network since April 2005 and acquired and began to operate our poster frame network from January 2006 under the brand name “Framedia”. In March 2006 and April 2006, respectively, we added a wireless application protocal, or WAP, based mobile phone advertising network and outdoor LED digital billboard advertising network to our business. Accordingly, we have a very limited operating history for our current operations upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by advertisers and consumers. It is also difficult to evaluate the viability of our use of audiovisual advertising displays in commercial buildings, hypermarkets, supermarkets and convenience stores and other out-of-home commercial locations and our use of advertising poster frames in residential complexes and WAP-based mobile handset advertising as a business model because we do not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new forms of advertising media and entering new and rapidly evolving markets. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from the provision of advertising services, and advertising is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and advertising trends. Demand for advertising time slots and advertising frame space on our networks, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients, is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and advertising spending typically decreases during periods of economic downturn. Advertisers may reduce the money they spend to advertise on our networks for a number of reasons, including: • a general decline in economic conditions; • a decline in economic conditions in the particular cities where we conduct business; • a decision to shift advertising expenditures to other available advertising media; or • a decline in advertising spending in general. A decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising services in particular would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our advertising services, and our financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of consumer spending and corresponding advertising trends in China. In addition, advertising 7 Table of Contents spending generally tends to decrease during January and February each year due to the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday. We also experience a slight decrease in revenues during the hot summer months of July and August each year, when there is a relative slowdown in overall commercial activity in urban areas in China. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate, such as the seasonality of advertising spending in China, a deterioration of economic conditions in China and potential changes to the regulation of the advertising industry in China, are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that quarter relative to our operating results from other quarters. Our failure to maintain existing relationships or obtain new relationships with businesses that allow us to place our flat-panel displays and advertising poster frames in their buildings and other commercial locations and to lease outdoor LED digital billboards placed in desirable locations would harm our business and prospects. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to provide large networks of flat-panel displays placed in desirable building, commercial and store locations, of advertising poster frames placed in residential complexes, and to secure desirable locations of large outdoor LED digital billboards, throughout major urban areas in China. We also depend on the ability of our third-party location provider to secure desirable LED digital billboard locations for our outdoor LED network. This, in turn, requires that we develop and maintain business relationships with real estate developers, landlords, property managers, hypermarkets, retailers and other businesses and locations in which we rent space for our displays and digital billboards. Although a majority of our display placement agreements and advertising frame placement agreements have terms ranging from three to five years and two to three years, respectively, and upon expiration give us the right to renew the agreement on terms no less favorable than those offered by competing bidders, we may not be able to maintain our relationships with them on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we fail to maintain our relationships with landlords and property managers, or if a significant number of our existing display or advertising frame placement agreements are terminated or not renewed or if we fail to maintain our relationship with our location provider of LED billboard space, advertisers may find advertising on our networks unattractive and may not wish to purchase advertising time slots or advertising frame space on our networks, which would cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. Under some of our display placement agreements in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Dalian and Chongqing, the property manager has the right to terminate the agreement if landlords or tenants in the building lodge complaints about our flat-panel displays. In addition, some of our display placement agreements in other cities allow the property manager to terminate the agreement if we fail to keep each flat-panel display operational for a minimum amount of time each year. If these tenants complain about our displays, or if the property manager claims we have failed to keep the flat-panel displays operational for the stipulated number of days each year, we may be required to remove our panels from these commercial locations. In accordance with PRC real estate laws and regulations, prior consent of landlords and property managers is required for any commercial use of the public areas or facilities of residential properties. With regard to our network of advertising poster frames and some of our flat-panel displays placed in the elevators and public areas of residential complexes, we have entered into frame or display placement agreements with property managers and landlords. For those frame or display placement agreements entered into with property managers, we intend to obtain or urge property managers to obtain consents from landlords. However, if the landlords of a residential complex object to our placing advertising poster frames or flat-panel displays in the elevators and public areas of the complex, we may be required to remove our advertising poster frames or flat-panel displays from the complex and may be subject to fines. We may not be able to successfully expand our out-of-home advertising network into new regions or diversify our network into new advertising networks or media platforms, which could harm or reverse our growth potential and our ability to increase our revenues. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain or retain desirable placement locations for our flat-panel displays, advertising poster frames and outdoor LED billboards on commercially advantageous terms or if the supply of desirable locations diminishes or ceases to expand, we could have difficulty in maintaining or expanding our network, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our location costs, which include lease payments to landlords and property managers under our display placement agreements, maintenance and monitoring fees and other associated costs, comprise a significant portion of our cost of revenues. In 2005, our location costs accounted for 61.7% of our cost of revenues and 24.0% of our total revenues, respectively. For 2006, our location costs accounted for 66.2% of our cost of revenues and 24.3% of our total revenues, respectively. In the future, we may need to increase our expenditures on our display and frame placement agreements to obtain new and desirable locations, to renew existing locations, and to secure favorable exclusivity and renewal terms. In addition, lessors of space for our flat-panel displays, advertising poster frames and LED billboards may charge increasingly higher display location lease fees, or demand other compensation arrangements, such as profit sharing. If we are unable to pass increased location costs on to our advertising clients through rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, in more developed cities, it may be difficult to increase the number of desirable locations in our network because most such locations have already been occupied either by us or by our competitors, or in the case of outdoor LED billboards, because the placement of outdoor installments may be limited by municipal zoning and planning policies. In recently developing cities, the supply of desirable locations may be small and the pace of economic development and construction levels may not provide a steadily increasing supply of desirable commercial and residential locations. If, as a result of these possibilities, we are unable to increase the placement of our out-of-home television and poster frame advertising networks into commercial and residential locations that advertisers find desirable, we may be unable to expand our client base, sell advertising time slots and poster frame space on our network or increase the rates we charge for time slots and poster frame space, which could decrease the value of our network to advertisers. If we are unable to attract advertisers to advertise on our networks, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees and the demand for time on our networks, which could negatively affect our ability to grow revenues. The amounts of fees we can charge advertisers for time slots on our out-of-home television networks depend on the size and quality of our out-of-home television networks and the demand by advertisers for advertising time on our out-of-home television networks. Advertisers choose to advertise on our out-of-home television networks in part based on the size of the networks and the desirability of the locations where we have placed our flat-panel displays and where we lease LED digital billboards as well as the quality of the services we offer. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of locations, displays and billboards in our networks, diversify advertising channels in our networks, or solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality provider of advertising services, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our networks or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to remain profitable. In addition, the fees we can charge advertisers for frame space on our poster frame network depends on the quality of the locations in which we place advertising poster frames, demand by advertisers for frame space and the quality of our service. If we are unable to continue to secure the most desirable residential locations for deployment of our advertising poster frames, we may be unable to attract advertisers to purchase frame space on our poster frame network. Our failure to attract advertisers to purchase time slots and frame space on our networks will reduce demand for time slots and frame space on our networks and the number of time slots and amount of frame space we are able to sell, which could necessitate lowering the fees we charge for advertising time on our network and could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues in the future. 9 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain the growth of our network of flat-panel displays into hypermarkets, supermarkets, convenience stores and other types of businesses that have control over many stores, and our failure to maintain such growth could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network and harm our business, reputation and results of operations. Our strategy includes expanding our in-store network into hypermarkets and other types of businesses that have control over many store locations such as supermarkets and convenience stores. We commenced operation of our in-store network in April 2005. As of December 31, 2006, we had placed 38,742 flat-panel displays in 3,898 hypermarkets, supermarkets and convenience stores. As a relatively new and untested portion of our business, it is difficult to evaluate whether our in-store network will continue to attract advertisers, and there exists the risk that it may not succeed at all. In 2005 and 2006 revenues from our in-store network accounted for 8.2% and 12.7% of our advertising service revenue, respectively. Many of our arrangements with such businesses are and will continue to be handled through a single or small number of display placement agreements designed to cover a chain’s entire network of stores, either nationwide or throughout an entire city. We may, therefore, increase our dependence on one or a small number of retail store chains in terms of our coverage. If our network becomes more concentrated in major chains, any dispute we have with any single chain, or any failure to renew our display placement agreements or maintain our exclusivity terms with any single chain, could materially reduce the attractiveness of our in-store network and harm our business, reputation and results of operations. Our acquisitions of Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless, Allyes and any future acquisitions may expose us to potential risks and have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions, such as our recent acquisitions of Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless and Allyes, form part of our strategy to further expand our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses, services or products that are complementary to our core business. Our integration of the acquired entities into our business may not be successful and may not enable us to expand into new advertising platforms as well as we expect. This would significantly affect the expected benefits of these acquisitions. Moreover, the integration of Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless and Allyes into our operations have required, and will continue to require, significant attention from our management. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, we may face challenges trying to integrate new operations, services and personnel with our existing operations. Our recent acquisitions and possible future acquisitions may also expose us to other potential risks, including risks associated with unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, our inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs, expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and advertising clients as a result of our integration of new businesses and new regulations governing cross-border investment by PRC residents. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate from acquiring Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless, Allyes and other companies, or that we will not incur costs, including those relating to intangibles or goodwill, in excess of our projected costs for these transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. There may be unknown risks inherent in our acquisitions of Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless and Allyes, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have conducted due diligence with respect to the major acquisitions we have undertaken and undertake, we may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the targets of such acquisitions including Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless and Allyes. Any discovery of adverse information concerning Framedia, Target Media, Focus Media Wireless or Allyes since we acquired these entities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we are entitled to seek indemnification in certain circumstances, successfully asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time consuming or may not be successful at all. 10 Table of Contents Our recent entry into mobile handset advertising and Internet advertising services through our acquisitions of Focus Media Wireless and Allyes, respectively, may expose us to risks associated with operating in the telecommunications and Internet industries in China which could materially affect our financial condition or results of operation. In March 2006, we completed our acquisition of Focus Media Wireless, which operates a mobile handset WAP-based advertising service over China Mobile’s and China Unicom’s mobile telecommunications networks. As a result, we now operate a portion of our advertising network on mobile telecommunications networks and are subject to risks associated with operations in the telecommunications sector in China. In addition, in March 2007, we acquired Allyes, which operates an Internet advertising agency and service technology business, and our operation of the business of Allyes subjects us to risks associated with operations in the Internet sector in China. These potential risks include: • loss or deterioration of our relationship with China Mobile or China Unicom, the two primary mobile telecommunications operators in China that currently provide wireless value-added services to mobile phone users; • loss or deterioration of our relationship with Internet service providers who use our WAP-based advertisement platform; • failure to reach traditional advertisers and to take advantage of marketing networks through our existing business; • changes in operating policies or guidelines by mobile telecommunications operators applicable to all wireless value-added service providers using their platforms or which restrict content supplied by others to us; • regulation of the telecommunications sector in China that could impose burdensome approval or licensing requirements on value-added service providers such as advertising companies that sell advertising time on mobile telecommunications networks; • a decision by either or both China Mobile and China Unicom to directly enter into the WAP-based advertising business; • consumer dissatisfaction with, or any related regulations restricting, the use or “pushing” of unsolicited advertisements, commonly known as “spam”; • the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure; • the continued growth of the Internet and e-commerce industries. As a result of any such change or event, the operation of our advertising network using the mobile telecommunications networks of the mobile telecommunications operators in China may be disrupted, which could in turn lower our advertising revenues or result in higher operating costs to us, and we cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operation would not be materially adversely affected. In addition, under PRC law, the services offered by Focus Media Wireless may be deemed value-added telecommunication services, which requires an operation permit that has a valid period of five years. Focus Media Wireless has been granted the operation permit for its wireless advertising operations. If the permit is revoked or if we are unable to renew the operation permit upon expiration, we will be required to suspend our services relating to our mobile handset advertising network, and our advertising service revenue derived from this portion of our network would be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents One or more of our regional distributors could engage in activities that are harmful to our reputation in the industry and to our business. As of December 31, 2006, we covered 40 out of the 91 cities where we provide our commercial location network through contractual arrangements with regional distributors. Under these arrangements, we provide our business model and operating expertise to local advertising companies in exchange for their acting as regional distributors of our advertising services. We also sell our flat-panel displays to our regional distributors, who are responsible for developing and maintaining an advertising network in office buildings and other commercial locations in the city where they operate. We also grant our regional distributors the right to use our “Focus Media” brand name and logo. However, our contractual arrangements with our regional distributors do not provide us with control or oversight over their everyday business activities, and one or more of our regional distributors may engage in activities that violate PRC laws and regulations governing the advertising industry and advertising content, or other PRC laws and regulations generally. Some of our regional distributors may not possess all the licenses required to operate an advertising business, or may fail to maintain the licenses they currently hold, which could result in local regulators suspending the operations of the network in those cities. In addition, we do not independently review the advertising content that our regional distributors display on the portion of our commercial location network that they operate independently, and our regional distributors may include advertising content on their part of the commercial location network and violate PRC advertising laws or regulations or expose them and us to lawsuits or result in the revocation of their business license. If any of these events occurs, it could harm our reputation in the industry. Failure to manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources and we may not be able to achieve anticipated levels of growth in the new networks and media platforms we are beginning to operate, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. We have been rapidly expanding, and plan to continue to rapidly expand, our operations in China. We must continue to expand our operations to meet the demands of advertisers for larger and more diverse network coverage and the demands of current and future landlords and property managers for installing and configuring flat-panel displays, advertising poster frames and outdoor LED billboards in our existing and future commercial, store, residential and curbside locations. This expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management resources. It has also increased our need for a reliable supply of equipment, particularly flat-panel displays and large LED digital billboards for our out-of-home television networks which are manufactured by a few third-party contract assemblers according to our specifications. To manage our growth, we must develop and improve our existing administrative and operational systems and, our financial and management controls and further expand, train and manage our work force. We have also commenced providing advertising services to mobile phone users through our recent acquisition of Focus Media Wireless. As we continue this effort, we may incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources in connection with any such expansion due to, among other things, different technology standards, legal considerations and cultural differences. We may not be able to manage our current or future international operations effectively and efficiently or compete effectively in such markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, recruit top talent and train our personnel. Any failure to efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our business and future growth. As we continue to expand into new networks and new media platforms, we expect the percentage of revenues derived from our commercial location network to decline. However, the new advertising networks and media platforms we pursue may not present the same opportunities for growth that we have experienced with our commercial location network and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that the level of growth of our networks will not decline over time. Moreover, we expect the level of growth of our commercial location network to decrease as many of the more desirable locations have already been leased by us or our competitors. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our out-of-home advertising network, our revenues may be negatively affected and our business may not expand or be successful. The market for out-of-home advertising networks in China is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising spending with many forms of more established advertising media. Our success depends on the acceptance of our out-of-home advertising network by advertisers and their continuing interest in these mediums as components of their advertising strategies. Our success also depends on the viewing public continuing to be receptive 12 Table of Contents towards our advertising network. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that consumers are not receptive to our networks or that our networks do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. Likewise, if consumers find some element of our networks, such as the audio feature of our commercial location, in-store and outdoor LED networks, to be disruptive or intrusive, commercial locations and stores may decide not to place our flat-panel displays in their properties and advertisers may view our advertising network as a less attractive advertising medium compared to other alternatives. In that event, advertisers may determine to reduce their spending on our advertising network. If a substantial number of advertisers lose interest in advertising on our advertising network for these or other reasons, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to operate our business, and our advertising service revenue, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively affected. If the Internet and, in particular, Internet marketing are not broadly adopted in China, our ability to generate revenue and sustain profitability from Allyes could be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenues and profits from our online advertising agency business we operate through Allyes are dependent in part upon advertisers in China increasingly accepting the use of the Internet as a marketing channel, which is at an early stage in China. Penetration rates for personal computers, the Internet and broadband in China are all relatively low compared to those in more developed countries. Furthermore, many Chinese Internet users are not accustomed to using the Internet for e-commerce or as a medium for other transactions. Many of our current and potential clients have limited experience with the Internet as a marketing channel, and have not historically devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to Internet marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the Internet as effective in promoting their products and services as traditional print and broadcast media. The growth of our online advertising agency business is substantially dependent on the acceptance of the cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM Internet advertising sales model, and certain performance-based Internet advertising sales models, including CPC and CPA models, by industry participants in China. The most prevalent Internet advertising sales model in China currently is cost-per-day, whereby Web publishers are paid based on the number of days an Internet ad is on display without regard to the ad’s effectiveness or the number of times the ad is displayed. We believe that the full advantages of Internet marketing in general and our Internet marketing solutions specifically can only be fully realized when more sophisticated Internet advertising sales models such as cost-per-thousand-impressions, or CPM, cost-per-click, or CPC, and cost-per-action, or CPA, are used to purchase ad space. If CPM, CPC and CPA fail to gain acceptance in China, our Internet marketing solutions will be less attractive to industry participants, and the market for those solutions may develop more slowly than we expect or even decline, which would materially and adversely affect our prospects and our business. In addition, if industry participants in China favor other newly-developed Internet advertising sales models incompatible with CPM, CPC or CPA, sales of our Internet marketing solutions may suffer and our revenue and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. If the delivery of ads or the use of cookies is limited or blocked, our ability to update and expand our user data would be hindered and demand for our Internet marketing solutions could decline. Our business may be adversely affected by practices and technologies that impair or undermine the performance of our Internet marketing solutions. For example, Internet users may use software designed to filter or prevent the delivery of Internet ads, including pop-up and pop-under ads; block, disable or remove cookies used by our Internet marketing technologies; or misrepresent measurements of advertising effectiveness. In particular, because we rely on cookies to obtain data about Internet users for our database of user information, widespread usage of software in China that disables or removes cookies would limit our ability to update and expand our user information and hinder our ability to provide effective targeted Internet marketing solutions to our clients. We cannot assure you that the proportion of Internet users who employ these or other similar technologies will not increase, thereby diminishing the efficiency of our Internet marketing solutions and causing demand for those solutions to decline. Our role through Allyes as a supplier of ad space may harm our reputation as an independent purchasing agent and the reputation of our performance-based advertising network as a marketplace for ad space. 13 Table of Contents We currently participate in both the purchase and supply of Internet ad space through our online advertising agency business. We also facilitate purchases by our clients of ad space on our performance-based advertising network and may act as sales representative to other Web publishers in the future. In addition, we supply ad space that we purchase from Web publishers on our performance-based advertising network from time to time to advertisers. Our role as a supplier of ad space might harm both our reputation as an independent purchasing agent and the reputation of our performance-based advertising network as a marketplace for ad space. If our reputation as an independent purchasing agent or the reputation of our performance-based advertising network is harmed, our clients may not purchase ad space from us and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our Internet advertising business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to introduce new or enhanced Internet marketing services and technologies that meet our clients’ requirements. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to enhance and integrate our existing Internet marketing services and technologies that we provide through Allyes and to introduce new, competitively priced services and technologies with features that meet evolving client requirements, all in a timely and cost-effective manner. A number of factors, including the following, could have a negative impact on the success of our services and technologies: • our failure to anticipate changes in clients’ requirements; • our competitors’ introduction of new services and technologies ahead of our new services and technologies, or their introduction of superior or cheaper services and technologies; • our failure to adapt to Internet advertising technology trends and evolving industry standards; and • delays or difficulties in technology integration, customization or development. The business and prospects of our online advertising agency business could be harmed if “click-through” fraud is not detected. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on ads posted on the performance-based advertising network of Allyes by individuals seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to our Web publishers. We may in the future have to refund revenue that our advertisers have paid to us and that was later attributed to click-through fraud. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual clicks on an ad displayed on a website for the sole intent of generating the revenue share payment to the publisher rather than to view the underlying content. From time to time we have experienced fraudulent clicks on the performance-based advertising network of Allyes and we do not allow our advertisers to be charged for such fraudulent clicks. This negatively affects the profitability of our online advertising agency business, and this type of fraudulent act could hurt our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our performance-based advertising network, which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our online advertising agency business, and in turn lead to loss of advertisers and the related revenue. Furthermore, fraudulent clicks directed at our performance-based advertising network or at other performance-based advertising platforms might encourage the perception among advertisers in China that performance-based sales models like CPC and CPA are not effective, which could slow or even reverse the development of those sales models in China. This could adversely affect our business and our prospects. System failures could significantly disrupt the operations of our online advertising agency business, which would cause us to lose clients or ad inventory. Our ability to successfully provide clients with Internet marketing services and our performance-based advertising network, and our ability to access user information depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to clients, including failures affecting our ability to deliver ads quickly and accurately and to access our user information base to provide targeted solutions, would reduce significantly the attractiveness of our services to advertisers and Web publishers. Our online advertising agency business could be materially and adversely affected by any damage or 14 Table of Contents failure that impacts data integrity or interrupts or delays our operations. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious or accidental human acts, and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems in part because we cannot control the maintenance and operation of our third-party data centers. Despite the precautions taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in the delivery of our solutions in the future and our ability to provide a record of past transactions. Our data centers and systems incorporate varying degrees of redundancy. All data centers and systems may not automatically switch over to their redundant counterpart. We carry no business insurance policies to compensate us for losses that could occur due to any failures in our systems. If our Internet marketing technologies contain design or performance defects, our reputation and business may be harmed and we may need to expend significant resources to address liability. Technologies as complex as ours may contain design and/or performance defects which are not detectable even after extensive internal testing. Such defects may become apparent only after widespread commercial use. Any design or performance defects in our Internet marketing technologies could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and business. It is not clear whether China’s existing product liability laws apply to technology products like ours. We cannot assure you that if our Internet marketing technologies are found to have design or performance defects, we will not be liable for product liability claims in China. We do not carry any product liability insurance. Our contracts with our clients currently do not contain provisions to completely limit our exposure to liabilities resulting from product liability claims. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. Additionally, we rely on our Internet marketing technologies (particularly our ad serving technology) to enhance our Internet marketing services and our performance-based advertising network. Any defect in those technologies could hinder the effectiveness of our Internet marketing services and our performance-based advertising network, which would have a material and adverse effect on our competitiveness, business and future prospects. We may be liable for content that we serve onto Web publishers’ websites, which could increase our expenses. We purchase ad space and then serve our clients’ ads into that ad space. We are liable under PRC law to ensure that the content of the ads that we serve are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Additionally, we may be liable to third-parties for content in our clients’ ads that we serve on Web publishers’ websites or deliver through our performance-based advertising network if those ads contain artwork, text or other content that violates third-parties’ copyrights, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights or if the content is defamatory. We typically indemnify Web publishers against liability arising from the content or nature of ads that we serve on their websites. Any claims or counterclaims against us could harm our reputation, be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could divert management’s attention. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We or our clients may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with our growth strategies. For example, we intend to expand our sales of rich media technologies, which are bandwidth-intensive. Limited bandwidth in China may hamper the effectiveness of our rich media technologies, which could harm our prospects and business and require us to purchase additional servers in our content distribution network. 15 Table of Contents We depend on the leadership and services of Jason Nanchun Jiang, who is our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and our largest shareholder, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose his services. Our future success is dependent upon the continued service of Jason Nanchun Jiang, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer and our largest shareholder. We rely on his industry expertise and experience in our business operations, and in particular, his business vision, management skills, and working relationships with our employees, our other major shareholders, many of our clients and landlords and property managers of the locations in our network. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for Mr. Jiang. If he was unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, or if he joined a competitor or formed a competing company in violation of his employment agreement and noncompetition agreement, we may not be able to replace him easily or at all. As a result, our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose his services. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including for working capital and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If these sources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities, could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising services companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The market for out-of-home advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, which may require us to develop new features and enhancements for our advertising network. The majority of our displays use 17-inch liquid crystal displays screens. We also have a growing number of displays that use larger LCD and plasma screens as well as large size LED digital billboards. Portions of our poster frame network are being upgraded to use digital poster LCD displays. Through our recent acquisition of Focus Media Wireless, we now also provide advertising services to mobile phone users over the mobile phone networks of China Mobile and China Unicom, while Allyes provides online advertising services to advertising customers. In the future, subject to relevant PRC laws and regulations, we may use other technology, such as cable or broadband networking, advanced audio technologies and high-definition panel technology. We may be required to 16 Table of Contents incur development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new technology needs but we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund and implement future technological innovations or to replace obsolete technology. Furthermore, we may fail to respond to these changing technology needs. For example, if the use of wireless or broadband networking capabilities on our advertising network becomes a commercially viable alternative and meets all applicable PRC legal and regulatory requirements, and we fail to implement such changes on our commercial location network and in-store network or fail to do so in a timely manner, our competitors or future entrants into the market who do take advantage of such initiatives could gain a competitive advantage over us. If we cannot succeed in developing and introducing new features on a timely and cost-effective basis, advertiser demand for our advertising networks may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our out-of-home television advertising networks, poster frame network or mobile handset advertising network. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. As an out-of-home advertising service provider, we are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content that is shown on our out-of-home advertising networks for compliance with applicable law. In addition, each of our regional distributors is obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content shown on the portion of our out-of-home television advertising network each of them operates. In general, the advertisements shown on our out-of-home television advertising network and the portion of our advertising network operated by our regional distributors have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification of such networks. We and our regional distributors are still separately required to independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying the advertisements. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific product advertisements before broadcasting, we and our regional distributors are separately obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. We employ, and our regional distributors are required under the terms of our agreements with them to employ, qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. In addition, for advertising content related to specific types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we and our distributors are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We endeavor to comply, and encourage our regional distributors to take measures to comply, with such requirements, including by requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. Starting in January 2006, we began to operate a network of advertising poster frames placed primarily in elevators and public areas of residential complexes. The advertisements shown on our poster frame network are defined as print advertisements under PRC laws and regulations and are also subject to the same legal requirements as advertisements shown on our out-of-home television advertising networks. Outdoor advertisements must be registered with the local SAIC before dissemination, and advertising distributors are required to submit a registration application form and the content of the advertisement to the local SAIC and receive an advertising registration certificate from the local SAIC. Our reputation will be tarnished and our results of operations may be adversely affected if advertisement shown on our out-of-home television advertising networks, poster frame network or outdoor LED network is provided to us by our advertising clients in violation of relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with such advertising content are not complete or that the advertisements that our regional distributors have procured for broadcasting on our network have not received required approval from the relevant local supervisory bodies or are not content compliant. In addition, we commenced operation of our outdoor LED digital billboard network in April 2006. The placement and installation of LED billboards are subject to municipal zoning requirements and governmental 17 Table of Contents approvals, including application for an outdoor advertising registration certificate for each LED billboard subject to a term of use of no more than six years for each LED billboard. If the existing LED billboards placed by our LED location provider or us are required to be removed, the attractiveness of this portion of our advertising network will be diminished. Moreover, failure by an owner of LED billboards to maintain outdoor advertising registration certificates would result in the inability to lease or market such space for the placement of advertisements. China has also enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet and telecommunications networks that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is pornographic or obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. China Unicom and China Mobile also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have punished certain providers for distributing inappropriate content, including the imposition of fines and service suspensions. Focus Media Wireless undertakes to the telecommunication operators which grant us access to their mobile phone networks that we will not distribute any advertisements with illegal content. We require the Internet service providers which use our WAP-based advertising platform to provide us the same undertaking, but we cannot completely control the content of their advertisements. If any of the content that we deliver through our mobile handset advertising network is found to violate Chinese laws and regulations or the policies of China Mobile and China Unicom, we could be subject to fines or suspensions. Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our advertising network. If consumers find the content displayed on our advertising network to be offensive, landlords, property managers, other location providers or telecommunication network operators may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached through the placement of unauthorized CF cards in our flat-panel displays and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our advertising network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure despite our efforts to ensure the security of our content management system. Any such event may also damage our reputation. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or accurate, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our advertising network. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our advertising displays or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may adversely affect our business and reputation. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with all our employees. We cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, third parties. 18 Table of Contents We are in the process of registering in China many of the trademarks used in our business. We cannot assure you that any of our trademark applications will ultimately proceed to registration or will result in registration with scope adequate for our business. Some of our pending applications or registration may be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark applications are not successful, we may have to use different marks for affected services or technologies, or enter into arrangements with any third parties who may have prior registrations, applications or rights, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. We compete with other advertising companies in China. We compete for advertising clients primarily on the basis of network size and coverage, location, price, the range of services that we offer and our brand name. We also face competition from other out-of-home television advertising network operators for access to the most desirable locations in cities in China. Individual buildings, hotels, restaurants and other commercial locations and hypermarket, supermarket and convenience store chains may also decide to independently, or through third-party technology providers, install and operate their own flat-panel television advertising screens. We also compete for overall advertising spending with other alternative advertising media companies, such as Internet, street furniture, billboard, frame and public transport advertising companies, and with traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, television, magazines and radio. In the future, we may also face competition from new entrants into the out-of-home television advertising sector. Our sector is characterized by relatively low fixed costs and, as is customary in the advertising industry, we do not have exclusive arrangements with our advertising clients. In addition, since December 10, 2005, wholly foreign-owned advertising companies are allowed to operate in China, which may expose us to increased competition from international advertising media companies attracted to opportunities in China. Increased competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and result in a loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources, or exclusive arrangements with desirable locations, and others may successfully mimic and adopt our business model. Moreover, increased competition will provide advertisers with a wider range of media and advertising service alternatives, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues, gross margins and profits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. We do not maintain any business liability disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations, and any business liability, disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 19 Table of Contents We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company for 2006, we do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company for 2007, and we do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we were a passive foreign investment company, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the then market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2006 or any future taxable year. For more information on PFICs, see “Item 10.E Additional Information Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation”. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the Nasdaq Global Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ADSs. Risks Relating to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. Substantially all of our operations are or will be conducted through Focus Media Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Focus Media Technology, Framedia Investment and Beijing Dotad Technology Co., Ltd., or Dotad Technology, our indirectly wholly-owned operating subsidiaries in China, Focus Media Digital Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Focus Media Digital, a 90%-owned subsidiary of Focus Media Technology, and New Allyes Information Technology Co., Ltd., or New Allyes Technology, which we collectively refer to as our PRC operating subsidiaries, and through our contractual arrangements with several of our consolidated affiliated entities in China. PRC regulations require any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry to have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. Since December 10, 2005, foreign investors have been allowed to own directly 100% of PRC companies operating an advertising business if the foreign entity has at least three years of direct operations in the advertising business outside of China or less than 100% if the foreign investor has at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. We do not currently directly operate an advertising business outside of China and cannot qualify under PRC regulations any earlier than two or three years after we commence any such operations outside of China or until we acquire a company that has directly operated an advertising business outside of China for the required period of time. Accordingly, our PRC operating subsidiaries are currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. Substantially all of our advertising business is currently provided through our contractual arrangements with our PRC operating subsidiaries’ consolidated affiliated entities in China, which we collectively refer to as our PRC 20 Table of Contents operating affiliates, including Focus Media Advertisement and its subsidiaries with regard to our out-of-home television networks, Framedia Advertisement, Guangdong Framedia and New Structure Advertisement with regard to our poster frame network, Focus Media Wireless with regard to our mobile handset advertising network, and seven PRC companies with regard to our online advertising agency business which operate the business of Allyes, and which we refer to as the Allyes operating affiliates. Our PRC operating affiliates are currently owned in each case either (i) by two PRC citizens designated by us or (ii) by two PRC entities owned by our subsidiaries or by our designated appointees. Our PRC operating affiliates and certain of their respective subsidiaries hold the requisite licenses to provide advertising services in China. Our PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries directly operate our advertising network. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on these PRC operating affiliates and their subsidiaries to operate our advertising business for the foreseeable future. We have entered into contractual arrangements with PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries, pursuant to which we, through our PRC operating subsidiaries, provide technical support and consulting services to our PRC operating affiliates and their subsidiaries. In addition, we have entered into agreements with our PRC operating affiliates and each of their shareholders which provide us with the substantial ability to control these affiliates and their existing and future subsidiaries. If we, our existing or future PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of this offering to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their subsidiaries and shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have in the past relied, and to a lesser but significant extent will continue in the future to rely, on contractual arrangements with our PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries and shareholders to operate our advertising business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see the sections titled “Organizational Structure” “Business Overview — Recent Developments” in Item 4. “Information on the Company” and “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over our PRC operating affiliates and their subsidiaries as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of our PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of those companies, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our PRC operating affiliates or any of their subsidiaries and shareholders fails to perform its or his respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you to be effective. For example, if Jason Nanchun Jiang were to refuse to transfer his equity interest in Focus Media Advertisement to us or our designee when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if Mr. Jiang were 21 Table of Contents otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal action to compel him to fulfill his contractual obligations. In addition, Focus Media Advertisement, which holds certain of the business licenses required to operate our advertising network in China, is jointly owned and effectively managed by Mr. Jiang and Mr. Yu. Similarly, each of the Allyes operating affiliates, which hold the licenses necessary to operate the business of Allyes, is jointly owned by a set of two PRC nationals. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against our PRC operating affiliates if they do not perform their obligations under its contracts with us or if any of the PRC citizens who hold the equity interest in our PRC operating affiliates do not cooperate with any such actions. Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our tax exemption, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into among our subsidiaries and affiliated entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Taxation” for a discussion of the transactions referred to above. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that Focus Media Digital, Shanghai Focus Media Advertising Agency Co., Ltd., or Focus Media Advertising Agency, New Focus Media Advertisement, New Focus Media Agency, Focus Media Defeng Advertisement or New Structure Advertisement are ineligible for their tax exemptions, would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. As a result of this risk, you should evaluate our results of operations and financial condition without regard to these tax savings. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements our PRC operating subsidiaries currently have in place with our PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC operating subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our PRC operating subsidiaries is also required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, subject to certain cumulative limits, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries and our PRC operating affiliates are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2006, the amount of these restricted portions was approximately $223,386,461. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 22 Table of Contents Our business operations may be affected by legislative or regulatory changes. There are no existing PRC laws or regulations that specifically define or regulate out-of-home television or mobile handset advertising. Changes in laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws and regulations governing placement or content of out-of-home advertising or distribution of mobile handset advertising, our business licenses or otherwise affecting our business in China may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. For example, the PRC government has promulgated regulations allowing foreign companies to hold a 100%-interest in PRC advertising companies starting from December 10, 2005. We are not certain how the PRC government will implement this regulation or how it could affect our ability to compete in the advertising industry in China. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using funds to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated PRC affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated PRC affiliated entities are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • loans by us to Focus Media Technology, Framedia Investment, Dotad Technology, or New Allyes Technology or any other of our foreign invested enterprises, to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange or its local counterpart; and • loans by us to our PRC operating affiliates or their respective subsidiaries, which are domestic PRC enterprises, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange or its local counterpart. We may also determine to finance Focus Media Technology, Focus Media Digital and New Focus Media Advertisement, New Focus Media Agency, Focus Media Defeng Advertisement or any of our foreign invested enterprises through Focus Media Technology, Framedia Investment, Dotad Technology and New Allyes Technology or our other PRC operating affiliates, by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Because our PRC operating affiliates and their respective subsidiaries are domestic PRC enterprises, we are not likely to finance their activities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in domestic PRC enterprises, as well as the licensing and other regulatory issues discussed in “Business Overview – Regulatory Matters” of Item 4. “Information on the Company” of this annual report. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to Focus Media Technology, Focus Media Digital, New Focus Media Advertisement, New Focus Media Agency, Focus Media Defeng Advertisement Framedia Investment, Focus Media Advertisement, Dotad Technology, New Allyes Technology or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to use our funds and to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to expand our business. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic Of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. 23 Table of Contents The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, under current PRC regulations, starting December 10, 2005, foreign entities are allowed to directly own 100% of a PRC advertising business if the foreign entity has at least three years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China, or to directly own less than 100% of a PRC advertising business if the foreign entity has at least two years of direct operations of an advertising business outside of China. This may encourage foreign advertising companies with more experience, greater technological know-how and larger financial resources than we have to compete against us and limit the potential for our growth. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in order to slow down specific segments of China’s economy which it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 26 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Each of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates is subject to PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. For example, these uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with the Group. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operation. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the advertising industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, including our ability to enforce our agreements with the Group, and other foreign investors, including you. 24 Table of Contents If tax benefits currently available to us in PRC were no longer available under the new Enterprise Income Taxes (EIT”) law which will be effective on January 1, 2008, our effective income tax rates for our PRC operations could increase. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands where no income taxes are imposed. We generated substantially all our net income from our PRC operations. Our China operations are conducted through various subsidiaries and VIEs. Pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, our subsidiaries and VIEs are generally subject to EIT at a statutory rate of 33%, which comprises 30% national income tax and 3% local income tax. Some of the Company’s subsidiaries and VIEs are newly incorporated enterprises engaged in advertising industry which are entitled to a two-year tax exemption holiday, commencing from the first operating year. One of our VIEs, Beijing Focus Media Wireless Co., Ltd., is a qualified new technology enterprise and under PRC Income Tax Laws are subject to a preferential tax rate of 15%, plus a three-year tax exemption followed by three years with a 50% reduction in the tax rate, commencing from the first profitable year. On March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress passed the China Corporate Income Tax Law which will change the income tax rates for most enterprises from 33% at the present to 25%. This new law will become effective on January 1, 2008. There will be a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, which currently receive preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities. Enterprises that are subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the new law. Enterprises that are currently entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises that qualify as “new and high technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” will be entitled to a 15% enterprise income tax rate. Most of the Company’s subsidiaries and VIEs are expected to transition from 33% to 25% starting from January 1, 2008. Those that currently enjoy a lower tax rate of 15% will gradually transition to the uniform tax rate of 25% from 2008 to 2012 unless the company obtains the “new and high technology enterprise” status under the new tax law. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, and SAFE recently promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest over the assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any registrations or approvals required under these regulations or other related legislation. Furthermore, 25 Table of Contents as the regulations are relatively new, the PRC government has yet to publish implementing rules, and much uncertainty remains concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements. It is unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with these regulations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our ability to inject additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries and the ability of Focus Media Technology, Focus Media Digital, New Focus Media Advertisement, New Focus Media Agency, Focus Media Defeng Advertisement, Framedia Investment or New Allyes Technology, our PRC subsidiaries, to make distributions or pay dividends, or materially and adversely affect our ownership structure. If any of the foregoing events occur, our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. See “Exchange Controls” in Item 10. “Additional Information” in this annual report. The PRC tax authorities may require us to pay additional taxes in connection with our acquisitions of offshore entities that conducted their PRC operations through their affiliates in China. Our operations and transactions are subject to review by the PRC tax authorities pursuant to relevant PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, in the case of some of our acquisitions of offshore entities that conducted their PRC operations through their affiliates in China, we cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not require us to pay additional taxes in relation to such acquisitions, in particular where the PRC tax authorities take the view that the previous taxable income of the PRC affiliates of the acquired offshore entities needs to be adjusted and additional taxes be paid. In the event that the sellers failed to pay any taxes required under PRC law in connection with these transactions, the PRC tax authorities might require us to pay the tax, together with late-payment interest and penalties. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Acquisitions”. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account”, which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account”, which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, each of Focus Media Technology and Framedia Investment may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not further limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect the ability of each of Focus Media Technology and Framedia Investment to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because our earnings and cash and cash equivalent assets are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars following this offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Since July 2005 the Renminbi is no longer pegged solely to the U.S. dollar. Instead, it is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. For example, on August 8, 2007 the Renminbi was revalued against the U.S. dollar to approximately RMB7.5793 to the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate 26 Table of Contents will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue in the future which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian flu in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Since September 2003, however, a number of isolated new cases of SARS have been reported, most recently in central China in April 2004. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. In addition, many countries, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. This disease, which is spread through poultry populations, is capable in some circumstances of being transmitted to humans and is often fatal. A new outbreak of SARS or an outbreak of avian flu may result in health or other government authorities requiring the closure of our offices or other businesses, including office buildings, retail stores and other commercial venues, which comprise the primary locations where we provide our out-of-home television and poster frame advertising services. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, an outbreak of avian flu or a development of a similar health hazard in China, may deter people from congregating in public places, including a range of commercial locations such as office buildings and retail stores. Such occurrences would severely impact the value of our out-of-home television and poster frame advertising networks to advertisers, significantly reduce the advertising time purchased by advertisers and severely disrupt our business and operations. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Our Trading Markets The price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since July 13, 2005, the closing prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from $8.90 to $51.20 per ADS and the last reported sale price on August 8, 2007 was $41.73. From July 13, 2005 until April 10, 2007, we used an ADS-to-share ratio of 10-to-one. Starting April 11, 2007, we reduced this ratio to five-to-one. All ADS trading prices on the Nasdaq set forth in this annual report, including historical trading and closing prices, have been adjusted to reflect the new ADS-to-share ratio of five-to-one. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. The financial markets in general, and the market prices for many PRC companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our advertising network could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. 27 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares is beneficially owned by Jason Nanchun Jiang, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and as a result, he may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of his shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. Jason Nanchun Jiang beneficially owns approximately 9.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, Jason Nanchun Jiang has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Further, Jason Nanchun Jiang is also an 85% shareholder of our affiliated PRC entity, Focus Media Advertisement, with which we have contractual arrangements that are essential to our business. The continuing cooperation of Focus Media Advertisement, and its shareholders, branches and subsidiaries, is important to our business. Without Jason Nanchun Jiang’s consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions or conducting business that could be beneficial to us. Accordingly, Mr. Jiang’s control of Focus Media Advertisement could hinder any change in control of our business, particularly where such change of control would benefit shareholders other than Mr. Jiang. It would be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if any disputes arise between us and Mr. Jiang or if he fails to carry out his contractual and fiduciary obligations to us. Thus, Jason Nanchun Jiang’s interests as an officer and employee may differ from his interests as a shareholder or from the interests of our other shareholders, including you. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage any hostile acquisition attempt by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if the Board of Directors issues preference shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. In addition, some actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. In addition, our directors serve terms of three years each, which terms are not staggered. The length of these terms could present an additional obstacle against the taking of action, such as a merger or other change of control, that could be in the interest of our shareholders. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some 28 Table of Contents U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or 29 Table of Contents • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 