Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and natural gas prices. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and internationally, and in particular, the level of exploration, development and production expenditures of our customers. Oil and natural gas prices and our customers’ expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. In particular, changes in the price of natural gas materially affect our operations because drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico is primarily focused on developing and producing natural gas reserves. However, higher prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since our clients’ expectations about future commodity prices typically drive demand for our services. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile and have recently declined considerably. On July 2, 2008 natural gas prices were $13.31 per MMBtu at the Henry Hub. They subsequently declined sharply, reaching a low of $4.33 per MMBtu at the Henry Hub on February 18, 2009. As of February 19, 2009, the closing price of natural gas at the Henry Hub was $4.45 per MMBtu. Oil prices in the past year, based on the spot price for West Texas intermediate crude, have ranged from a high of $145.29 as of July 3, 2008, to a low of $31.41 as of December 22, 2008, with a closing price of $39.48 as of February 19, 2009. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • the demand for oil and natural gas in the United States and elsewhere; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, and the relative cost of onshore production or importation of natural gas; • political, economic and weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • imports of liquefied natural gas; • expectations regarding future commodity prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and international tax policies and governmental regulations; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels, and the competitive, social and political position of natural gas as a source of energy compared with other energy sources; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other significant oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere; and • acts of terrorism in the United States and elsewhere. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, and even during periods of high commodity prices, companies exploring for and producing oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. Any reduction in the demand for drilling and liftboat services may materially erode dayrates and utilization rates for our units, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could cause a downturn in the economies of the United States and those of other countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in 16 Table of Contents energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. The offshore service industry is highly cyclical, and certain of our contracts, primarily in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, are short-term contracts. The volatility of the industry, coupled with our short-term contracts, could result in sharp declines in our profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs or liftboats being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to stack rigs or liftboats or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, contracts are generally short term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to upward or downward changes in prices. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, including for our rigs and liftboats in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and for some of our international liftboats, changes in market conditions can quickly affect our business. In addition, customers generally have the right to terminate our contracts with little or no notice, and without penalty. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, we expect our results of operations to be volatile. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that our rigs’ carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant portion of our business is conducted in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The mature nature of this region could result in less drilling activity in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and in particular the shallow-water region of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average size of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico discoveries has declined significantly since the early 1990s. In addition, the amount of natural gas production in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico has declined over the last decade. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduced demand for our services. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig and liftboat availability, location and technical capability and each contractor’s safety performance record and reputation for quality also can be key factors in the determination. Dayrates also depend on the supply of rigs and vessels. Generally, excess capacity puts downward pressure on dayrates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed rigs and vessels enter service, when rigs and vessels are mobilized between geographic areas and when non-marketed rigs and vessels are re-activated. Many other companies in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. In the past, rigs like ours have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than our competitors’ higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which has adversely impacted our business and could be repeated in the future. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. In recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deeper water drilling programs and deeper formations requiring higher specification rigs. This trend is expected to 17 Table of Contents continue and could result in a decline in demand for the rigs in our fleet. Some of our competitors also are incorporated in tax-haven countries outside the United States, which provides them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company, which may materially impair our ability to compete with them for many projects that would be beneficial to our company. In addition, the competitive environment has intensified as recent mergers within the oil and natural gas industry have reduced the number of available customers and suppliers, resulting in increased price competition and fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies. Finally, competition among drilling and marine service providers is also affected by each provider’s reputation for safety and quality. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling and liftboat contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Currently, all of our drilling contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. Likewise, under our current liftboat contracts, we charge a fixed fee per day regardless of the success of the operations that are being conducted by our customer utilizing our liftboat. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig or liftboat that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig or liftboat at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the rig or liftboat is a total loss, if the rig or liftboat is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig or liftboat being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts, such as the contracts in our International Offshore segment, and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We can provide no assurance that our current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. As of February 19, 2009, our total contract drilling backlog for our Domestic Offshore, International Offshore and Inland segments was approximately $726.9 million. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above or in connection with the financial crisis or falling commodity prices. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to or destruction of the property and equipment involved, injury or death to rig or liftboat personnel, and environmental damage. We may also be subject to 18 Table of Contents personal injury and other claims of rig or liftboat personnel as a result of our drilling and liftboat operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our drilling and liftboat operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Tropical storms, hurricanes and other severe weather prevalent in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, such as Hurricane Gustav in September 2008, Hurricane Ike in September 2008, Hurricane Rita in September 2005, Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 and Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. During such severe storms, our liftboats typically leave location and cease to earn a full dayrate. Under U.S. Coast Guard guidelines, the liftboats cannot return to work until the weather improves and seas are less than five feet. In addition, damage to our rigs, liftboats, shorebases and corporate infrastructure caused by high winds, turbulent seas, or unstable sea bottom conditions could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages can be repaired. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. As a result of a number of recent catastrophic events like Hurricanes Ike, Ivan, Katrina and Rita, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ike, Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, our insurance costs increased significantly, our deductibles increased and our coverage for named windstorm damage was restricted. Any additional severe storm activity in the energy producing areas of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the future could cause insurance underwriters to no longer insure U.S. Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. A number of our customers that produce oil and natural gas have previously maintained business interruption insurance for their production. This insurance may cease to be available in the future, which could adversely impact our customers’ business prospects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduce demand for our services. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our rigs or liftboats, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these clients will necessarily be financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may be effectively prevented from enforcing these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger clients. Additionally, from time to time we may not be able to obtain agreement from our customer to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Our international operations are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties not generally associated with domestic operations. An element of our business strategy is to continue to expand into international oil and natural gas producing areas such as West Africa, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. We operate liftboats in West Africa, including Nigeria, as well as operate one liftboat in the Middle East. In addition, we have one 19 Table of Contents liftboat undergoing regulatory and other modifications and repairs in the Middle East. We also operate drilling rigs in India, Southeast Asia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Mexico and West Africa. We have one jackup rig undergoing an upgrade in Namibia and one jackup rig cold-stacked in Trinidad. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • piracy; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages or spikes, particularly in the Nigerian and Mexican labor environment; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; • imposition or changes in enforcement of local content laws; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. As a result of our international expansion the exposure to these risks will increase. Our financial condition and results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular countries or regions in which we are active. Many governments favor or effectively require that liftboat or drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts against local competitors. Our non-U.S. contract drilling and liftboat operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling rigs and liftboats, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors and duties on the importation and exportation of units and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. 20 Table of Contents Due to our international operations, we may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a single major integrated energy company. Chevron Corporation represented approximately 12%, 21% and 35% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. In addition, Chevron Corporation accounts for 73.2% of the revenues for our International Liftboats segment. Our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if Chevron curtails its activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or Nigeria, terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. In addition, the loss of any of our other significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reactivation of non-marketed rigs or liftboats, mobilization of rigs or liftboats back to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or new construction of rigs or liftboats could result in excess supply in the region, and our dayrates and utilization could be reduced. If market conditions improve, inactive rigs and liftboats that are not currently being marketed could be reactivated to meet an increase in demand. Improved market conditions, particularly relative to other markets, could also lead to jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats being moved into the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or could lead to increased construction and upgrade programs by our competitors. Some of our competitors have already announced plans to upgrade existing equipment or build additional jackup rigs with higher specifications than our rigs. According to ODS-Petrodata, as of February 20, 2009, 70 jackup rigs had been ordered by industry participants, national oil companies and financial investors for delivery through 2011. Not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. In addition, as of February 2009, we believe there were also 10 liftboats under construction or on order in the United States that may be used in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. A significant increase in the supply of jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units or liftboats could adversely affect both our utilization and dayrates. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We make upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, including when we acquire units or when repairs or upgrades are required by law, in response to an inspection by a governmental authority or when a unit is damaged. We also regularly make certain upgrades or modifications to our drilling rigs to meet customer or contract specific requirements. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems; • latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; 21 Table of Contents • work stoppages; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • failure or delay in obtaining acceptance of the rig from our customer; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability or delay in obtaining customer acceptance or flag-state, classification society, or regulatory approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade and refurbishment projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures. Failure to complete an upgrade, refurbishment or repair project on time may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling or liftboat contract and could put at risk our planned arrangements to commence operations on schedule. We also could be exposed to penalties for failure to complete an upgrade, refurbishment or repair project and commence operations in a timely manner. Our rigs and liftboats undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. Our jackup rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification rigs, which may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. Many of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet. In addition, the announced construction of new rigs includes approximately 70 higher specification jackup rigs. Further, 22 of our 31 jackup rigs are mat-supported, which are generally limited to areas with soft bottom conditions like much of the Gulf of Mexico. Most of the new rigs available in the second half of 2009 and beyond are currently without contracts, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. In the past, lower specification rigs have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which may adversely impact our business. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and therefore have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Because a majority of our rigs were designed specifically for drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico, our ability to move them to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deepwater drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification jackup rigs, semisubmersible drilling rigs or drillships. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a decline in demand for lower specification jackup rigs like ours, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, one of our customers, Pemex Exploración y Producción (“PEMEX”), has indicated a shifting focus in drilling rig requirements since the beginning of 2008, with more emphasis placed on independent leg cantilever rigs rated for 205 foot water depth or greater, versus mat cantilever rigs rated for 200 foot water depth. It is possible that demand in Mexico for our 200 foot mat cantilever fleet could decline and the future contracting opportunities for such rigs in Mexico could diminish. 22 Table of Contents TODCO’s tax sharing agreement with Transocean may require continuing substantial payments. We, as successor to TODCO, and TODCO’s former parent Transocean Holdings Inc. are parties to a tax sharing agreement that was originally entered into in connection with TODCO’s initial public offering in 2004. The tax sharing agreement was amended and restated in November 2006. The tax sharing agreement required us to make an acceleration payment to Transocean upon completion of the TODCO acquisition. Additionally, the tax sharing agreement continues to require that additional payments be made to Transocean based on a portion of the expected tax benefit from the exercise of certain compensatory stock options to acquire Transocean common stock attributable to current and former TODCO employees and board members. The estimated amount of payments to Transocean related to compensatory options that remain outstanding at December 31, 2008, assuming a Transocean stock price of $47.25 per share at the time of exercise of the compensatory options (the actual price of Transocean’s common stock at December 31, 2008), is approximately $4.9 million. There is no certainty that we will realize future economic benefits from TODCO’s tax benefits equal to the amount of the payments required under the tax sharing agreement. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. Forecasted crude oil prices for 2009 have dropped substantially in recent months. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress the immediate levels of exploration, development and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related instability in the global financial system has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The credit crisis could have an impact on the lenders under our credit facility or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In order to execute our growth strategy, we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our business is capital-intensive and, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to execute our growth strategy and to fund capital expenditures. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, dilution to the holdings of existing stockholders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance requirements and acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. 23 Table of Contents Acquisitions are an important component of our business strategy. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or incorrectly predict operating results. The acquisition of assets or businesses that are complementary to our drilling and liftboat operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may or may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. Any such transactions could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to retain or attract skilled workers could hurt our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our rigs and liftboats. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work. In periods of economic crisis or during a recession, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining our skilled workers as these workers may seek employment in less cyclical or volatile industries or employers. In periods of recovery or increasing activity, we may have to increase the wages of our skilled workers, which could negatively impact our operations and financial results. Although our domestic employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Governmental laws and regulations may add to our costs or limit drilling activity and liftboat operations. Our operations are affected in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. The industries in which we operate are dependent on demand for services from the oil and natural gas industry and, accordingly, are also affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board and the United States Customs and Border Protection Service, as well as private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with 24 Table of Contents laws and the applicable regulations and standards of those authorities and organizations. Moreover, the cost of compliance could be higher than anticipated. Similarly, our international operations are subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, certain international conventions and the laws, regulations and standards of other foreign countries in which we operate. It is also possible that these conventions, laws, regulations and standards may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or limit our activities. In addition, as our vessels age, the costs of drydocking the vessels in order to comply with governmental laws and regulations and to maintain their class certifications are expected to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with or a breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to regulations that require us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals, control the discharge of materials into the environment, require the removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. For example, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats in navigable U.S. waters and some offshore areas, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills or other unauthorized discharges of chemicals or wastes resulting from those operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Some of these laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new requirements, both in U.S. waters and internationally, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs and liftboats as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our fleet by extending the economic life of existing rigs and liftboats, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement units. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs do not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate. But costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not de-man those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We are from time to time involved in various litigation matters. The numerous operating hazards inherent in our business increases our exposure to litigation, including personal injury litigation brought against us by our employees that are injured operating our rigs and liftboats. These matters may include, among other 25 Table of Contents things, contract disputes, personal injury, environmental, asbestos and other toxic tort, employment, tax and securities litigation, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. We have extensive litigation brought against us in federal and state courts located in Louisiana, Mississippi and South Texas, areas that were significantly impacted by the hurricanes in 2005 and, more recently, by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The jury pools in these areas have become increasingly more hostile to defendants, particularly corporate defendants in the oil and gas industry. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter. Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with defending the lawsuits, the diversion of our management’s resources and other factors. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. They could also be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the potential examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where we file tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the provisions of U.S. law on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified, repealed or waived. We are subject to U.S. federal laws that restrict maritime transportation, including liftboat services, between points in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our liftboats in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our liftboats, fines or forfeiture of the liftboats. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal these restrictions to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades currently reserved for U.S.-flag vessels under the federal laws. We believe that interest groups may continue efforts to modify or repeal these laws currently benefiting U.S.-flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in increased competition, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our debt could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make it difficult to meet our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $1,054.2 billion. This debt represented approximately 53.7% of our total book capitalization. After giving effect to the April 2008 increase of $100 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility, as of December 31, 2008, we had up to $250 million of available capacity under that facility, of which $29.0 million was committed related to issued standby letters of credit. We may continue to borrow to fund working capital or other needs in the near term up to the remaining availability. Our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; • we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because our borrowings generally are at variable rates of interest, which would result in higher interest expense to the extent we have not hedged such risk in the event of increases in interest rates; and 26 Table of Contents • we could be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business that would leave us less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible notes issued by us on June 3, 2008, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. Our senior secured credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our senior secured credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. These restrictions limit our ability to: • make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create or incur liens; • restrict dividend or other payments by our subsidiaries to us; • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio. In addition, commencing with the year ending December 31, 2008, we are required to prepay our $900.0 million term loan with 50% of our excess cash flow until the outstanding principal balance of the term loan is less than $550.0 million. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance our acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand a future downturn in our business. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. If we were unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding against collateral. 27 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We currently conduct our operations through, and most of our assets are owned by, both U.S. and foreign subsidiaries, and our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries that we require to pay our debt service obligations, including payments on the convertible notes. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by our subsidiaries to further taxation. The inability to transfer cash from our subsidiaries to us may mean that, even though we may have sufficient resources on a consolidated basis to meet our obligations, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from subsidiaries to the parent company in order to provide funds for the payment of the parent company’s obligations. We limit foreign ownership of our company, which may restrict investment in our common stock and could reduce the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation limits the percentage of outstanding common stock and other classes of capital stock that can be owned by non-United States citizens within the meaning of statutes relating to the ownership of U.S.-flagged vessels. Applying the statutory requirements applicable today, our certificate of incorporation provides that no more than 20% of our outstanding common stock may be owned by non-United States citizens and establishes mechanisms to maintain compliance with these requirements. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock because holders may be unable to transfer our common stock to non-United States citizens. Any attempted or purported transfer of our common stock in violation of these restrictions will be ineffective to transfer such common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of such common stock. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any transfer, or attempted or purported transfer, of any shares of our capital stock that would result in the ownership or control of in excess of 20% of our outstanding capital stock by one or more persons who are not United States citizens for purposes of U.S. coastwise shipping will be void and ineffective as against us. In addition, if at any time persons other than United States citizens own shares of our capital stock or possess voting power over any shares of our capital stock in excess of 20%, we may withhold payment of dividends, suspend the voting rights attributable to such shares and redeem such shares. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so investors in our common stock may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. Subject to Delaware law, our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our common stock, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of any applicable contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our senior secured credit agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our equity securities. Accordingly, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Stockholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell our common stock and may lose the entire amount of their investment. Provisions in our charter documents, stockholder rights plan or Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some 28 Table of Contents of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 