Item 1A. Risk Factors New and proposed laws, regulations and requirements arising out of the Macondo well blowout incident could prevent or cause delays for our customers in obtaining approval to conduct drilling operations and lead to increased potential liability and costs for us and our customers, which could adversely impact our operations and profitability in the United States Gulf of Mexico. In response to the Macondo well blowout incident in the United States Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the U.S. federal government has promulgated new laws, regulations and requirements that impose additional safety and environmental requirements on offshore drilling companies and oil and gas companies operating in the United States Gulf of Mexico. We have significant operations that are either ongoing or scheduled to commence in the Gulf of Mexico. The requirements set forth in these new laws, regulations and requirements may continue to delay our operations and cause us to incur additional expenses in order for our rigs and operations in the Gulf of Mexico to be compliant with the new laws, regulations and requirements. These new laws, regulations and requirements and other potential changes in laws and regulations applicable to the offshore drilling industry in the Gulf of Mexico may also continue to prevent our customers from obtaining new drilling permits and approvals in a timely manner, if at all, which could adversely impact our revenue and profitability. In addition to the recently implemented laws, regulations and requirements, the federal government is considering additional new laws, regulations and requirements, including those that impose additional equipment requirements and that relate to the protection of the environment, which would be applicable to the offshore drilling industry in the Gulf of Mexico. The implementation of some of the currently proposed laws and regulations could lead to substantially increased potential liability and operating costs for us and our customers, which could cause our customers to discontinue or delay operating in the Gulf of Mexico and/or redeploy capital to international locations. These actions, if taken by any of our customers, could result in underutilization of our Gulf of Mexico assets and have an adverse impact on our revenue, profitability and financial position. The regulatory and legal environment in the Gulf of Mexico remains uncertain and is currently in a state of flux. Accordingly, we cannot predict at this time the impact that any potential changes in laws and regulations relating to offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity in the United States Gulf of Mexico may have on our operations or contracts, the extent to which the issuance of drilling permits will continue to be delayed, the effect on the cost or availability of insurance, or the impact on our customers and the demand for our services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Future legislation or regulations may impose new equipment and environmental requirements on us and our customers that could delay or hinder our operations and those of our customers in the United States Gulf of Mexico, which could likewise have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. 17 Table of Contents Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and natural gas prices. Our business depends on the level of activity of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and internationally, and in particular, the level of exploration, development and production expenditures of our customers. Demand for our drilling services is adversely affected by declines associated with depressed oil and natural gas prices. Even the perceived risk of a decline in oil or natural gas prices often causes oil and gas companies to reduce spending on exploration, development and production. Reductions in capital expenditures of our customers reduce rig utilization and day rates. In particular, changes in the price of natural gas materially affect our operations because drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico is primarily focused on developing and producing natural gas reserves. However, higher prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since our clients’ expectations about future commodity prices typically drive demand for our services. Oil and natural gas prices are extremely volatile. On July 2, 2008 natural gas prices were $13.31 per million British thermal unit, or MMBtu, at the Henry Hub. They subsequently declined sharply, reaching a low of $1.88 per MMBtu at the Henry Hub on September 4, 2009. As of March 3, 2011, the closing price of natural gas at the Henry Hub was $3.75 per MMBtu. The spot price for West Texas intermediate crude has recently ranged from a high of $145.29 per barrel as of July 3, 2008, to a low of $31.41 per barrel as of December 22, 2008, with a closing price of $101.91 per barrel as of March 3, 2011. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • the demand for oil and natural gas in the United States and elsewhere; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, and the relative cost of onshore production or importation of natural gas; • political, economic and weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • imports of liquefied natural gas; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain oil production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and international tax policies and governmental regulations; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels, and the competitive, social and political position of natural gas as a source of energy compared with other energy sources; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • the worldwide military and political environment and uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, North Africa, West Africa and other significant oil and natural gas producing regions; and • acts of terrorism or piracy that affect oil and natural gas producing regions, especially in Nigeria, where armed conflict, civil unrest and acts of terrorism have recently increased. While economic conditions have improved, reduced demand for drilling and liftboat services has materially eroded dayrates and utilization rates for our units, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Continued hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa, and West Africa and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could negatively impact the economies of the United States and other countries where we operate. Another decline in the economy could result in a decrease in energy consumption, which in turn would cause our revenue and margins to further decline and limit our future growth prospects. 18 Table of Contents The offshore service industry is highly cyclical and is currently experiencing low demand and low dayrates. The volatility of the industry, coupled with our short-term contracts, has resulted and could continue to result in sharp declines in our profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand or increasing supply, such as we are currently experiencing, intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs or liftboats being idle for long periods of time. While economic conditions have recently begun to improve, in response to the economic downturn that commenced in late 2008, we stacked additional rigs and liftboats and entered into lower dayrate contracts. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, we expect our results of operations to be volatile and to decrease during market declines such as we are currently experiencing. We have a significant level of debt, and could incur additional debt in the future. Our debt could have significant consequences for our business and future prospects. As of December 31, 2010, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $858.1 million. This debt represented approximately 50% of our total book capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, we had $163.5 million of available capacity under our revolving credit facility, after the commitment of $11.5 million for standby letters of credit issued under it. However, our available capacity under our revolving credit facility, as of and as amended on March 3, 2011, was $129.1 million after the commitment of $10.9 million for standby letters of credit issued under it. We may borrow under our revolving credit facility to fund working capital or other needs in the near term up to the remaining availability subject to our compliance with financial covenants. Our debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences for our business and future prospects, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes and we may be required under the terms of our credit facility, as amended, to use the proceeds of any financing we obtain to repay or prepay existing debt; • we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our debt; • we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because 55 percent of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which will result in higher interest expense to the extent that we do not hedge such risk in the event of increases in interest rates; • we could be more vulnerable during downturns in our business and be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and • we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the term loan issued in July 2007, the convertible notes issued by us in June 2008 and the senior secured notes issued by us in October 2009, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and other commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement, there could be a default, which could result in an acceleration of repayment of funds that we have borrowed. Our Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) requires that we meet certain financial ratios and tests. Effective July 27, 2009, we entered into an amendment of our Credit Agreement (“2009 Credit Amendment”) 19 Table of Contents to provide additional flexibility in certain financial covenants. Furthermore, the 2009 Credit Amendment also imposes other covenants and restrictions, including the imposition of a requirement to maintain a minimum level of liquidity at all times. Effective March 3, 2011, we entered into another amendment to our Credit Facility (“2011 Credit Amendment”) to, among other things, allow for the use of cash to purchase certain assets from Seahawk Drilling, Inc., exempt the pro forma treatment of historical results from the Seahawk assets with respect to the calculation of the financial covenants in the Credit Agreement, increase our investment basket and provide additional flexibility in a certain financial covenant. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the modified financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants and restrictions can be affected by events beyond our control. Continued reduced activity levels in the oil and natural gas industry could adversely impact our ability to comply with such covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with such covenants would result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. An event of default could prevent us from borrowing under our revolving credit facility, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our available liquidity. In addition, an event of default could result in our having to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the credit facility, the 3.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2038 (“3.375% Convertible Senior Notes”), the 10.5% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 (“10.5% Senior Secured Notes”) and in foreclosure of liens on our assets. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of our financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. Our Credit Agreement imposes significant additional costs and operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain actions. Our Credit Agreement imposes significant additional costs and operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: • make certain types of loans and investments; • pay dividends, redeem or repurchase stock, prepay, redeem or repurchase other debt or make other restricted payments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • use proceeds from asset sales, new indebtedness or equity issuances for general corporate purposes or investment into our current business; • invest in certain new joint ventures; • create or incur liens; • place restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends or other payments to us; • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, under our Credit Agreement, as amended, we are required to prepay our term loan with 50% of our excess cash flow through the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. Our term loan must also be prepaid using the proceeds from unsecured debt issuances (with the exception of refinancing), secured debt issuances and sales of assets in excess of $25 million annually, casualty events not used to repair damaged property as well as 50% of proceeds from equity issuances (excluding those for permitted acquisitions or to meet the minimum liquidity requirements) unless we have achieved a specified leverage ratio. Our Credit Agreement also imposes significant financial and operating restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to acquire assets, except in cases in which the consideration is equity or the net cash proceeds of an issuance thereof (with the exception of the Seahawk acquisition), unless we are in compliance with more restrictive financial covenants than what we are normally required to meet in each respective period as defined in the 2011 Credit Amendment. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain 20 Table of Contents future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance our acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand the present or any future downturn in our business. Maintaining idle assets or the sale of assets below their then carrying value may cause us to experience losses and may result in impairment charges. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates, the cold stacking of idle assets or the sale of assets below their then carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events may also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our assets if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable or if we sell assets at below their then current carrying value. Our industry is highly competitive, with intense price competition. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig and liftboat availability, location and technical capability and each contractor’s safety performance record and reputation for quality also can be key factors in the determination. Dayrates also depend on the supply of rigs and vessels. Generally, excess capacity puts downward pressure on dayrates, and we have recently experienced declines in utilized days and dayrates. Excess capacity can occur when newly constructed rigs and vessels enter service, when rigs and vessels are mobilized between geographic areas and when non-marketed rigs and vessels are re-activated. Several of our competitors also are incorporated in other jurisdictions outside the United States, which provides them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company, which may materially impair our ability to compete with them for many projects that would be beneficial to our company. The continuing worldwide economic problems have materially reduced our revenue, profitability and cash flows. While conditions have recently improved, the worldwide economic problems that commenced in late 2008 led to a reduction in the availability of liquidity and credit to fund business operations worldwide, and adversely affected our customers, suppliers and lenders. The economic decline caused a reduction in worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. While oil prices and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices have recently rebounded, demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and capital expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will further depress the current levels of exploration, development and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may be at a cost which reduces our cash flow and profitability. Our business is capital-intensive and, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt (which would increase our interest costs) or equity financings to execute our business strategy, to fund capital expenditures or to meet our covenants under the Credit Agreement. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms and under the terms of our Credit Agreement, we may be required to use the proceeds of any capital that we raise to repay existing indebtedness. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance of our assets, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Asset sales are currently an important component of our business strategy for the purpose of reducing our debt. We may be unable to identify appropriate buyers with access to financing or to complete any sales on acceptable terms. We are currently considering sales or other dispositions of certain of our assets, and any such disposition could be significant and could significantly affect the results of operations of one or more of our business segments. In the current economic environment, asset sales may occur on less favorable terms than terms that might be available at other times in the business cycle. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential buyers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may or may not result in the consummation of an asset sale. We may not be able to identify buyers with access to financing or complete any sales on acceptable terms. Our contracts are generally short term, and we will experience reduced profitability if our customers reduce activity levels or terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling or liftboat contracts or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Currently, all of our drilling contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. Likewise, under our current liftboat contracts, we charge a fixed fee per day regardless of the success of the operations that are being conducted by our customer utilizing our liftboat. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig or liftboat that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig or liftboat at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the rig or liftboat is a total loss, if the rig or liftboat is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, contracts are generally short term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to reduce activity levels quickly in response to downward changes in oil and natural gas prices. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, a decline in market conditions can quickly affect our business if customers reduce their levels of operations. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate the contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig or liftboat being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel or require us to renegotiate some of our significant contracts, if we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, especially those contracts in our International Offshore segment, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time, our revenue and profitability would be materially reduced. An increase in supply of rigs or liftboats could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reactivation of non-marketed rigs or liftboats, mobilization of rigs or liftboats back to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or new construction of rigs or liftboats could result in excess supply in the region, and our dayrates and utilization could be reduced. Construction of rigs could result in excess supply in international regions, which could reduce our ability to secure new contracts for our stacked rigs and could reduce our ability to renew, or extend or obtain new contracts for working rigs at the end of their contract term. The excess supply would also impact the dayrates on future contracts. 22 Table of Contents If market conditions improve, inactive rigs and liftboats that are not currently being marketed could be reactivated to meet an increase in demand. Improved market conditions in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, particularly relative to other regions, could also lead to jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats being moved into the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Improved market conditions in any region worldwide could lead to increased construction and upgrade programs by our competitors. Some of our competitors have already announced plans to upgrade existing equipment or build additional jackup rigs with higher specifications than our rigs. According to ODS-Petrodata, as of March 3, 2011, 56 jackup rigs (excludes 10 rigs that have been indefinitely suspended) were under construction or on order by industry participants, national oil companies and financial investors for delivery through 2014. Many of the rigs currently under construction have not been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. A significant increase in the supply of jackup rigs, other mobile offshore drilling units or liftboats could adversely affect both our utilization and dayrates. Our business involves numerous operating hazards and exposure to extreme weather and climate risks, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to or destruction of the property and equipment involved, injury or death to rig or liftboat personnel, and environmental damage. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of rig or liftboat personnel as a result of our drilling and liftboat operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our drilling and liftboat operations are subject to perils of marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Tropical storms, hurricanes and other severe weather prevalent in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could have a material adverse effect on our operations. During such severe weather conditions, our liftboats typically leave location and cease to earn a full dayrate. Under U.S. Coast Guard guidelines, the liftboats cannot return to work until the weather improves and seas are less than five feet. In addition, damage to our rigs, liftboats, shorebases and corporate infrastructure caused by high winds, turbulent seas, or unstable sea bottom conditions could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages can be repaired. In addition, we cold stack a number of rigs in certain locations offshore. This concentration of rigs in specific locations could expose us to increased liability from a catastrophic event and could cause an increase in our insurance costs. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are subject to significant deductibles and are not totally insurable. Risks from extreme weather and marine hazards may increase in the event of ongoing patterns of adverse changes in weather or climate. A significant portion of our business is conducted in shallow-water areas of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The mature nature of this region could result in less drilling activity in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. The U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and in particular the shallow-water region of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average size of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico discoveries has declined significantly since the early 1990s. In addition, the amount of natural gas production in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico has declined over the last decade. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be 23 Table of Contents unable to obtain financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduced demand for our services. We can provide no assurance that our current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. As of February 16, 2011, our total contract drilling backlog for our Domestic Offshore, International Offshore, International Liftboats and Inland segments was approximately $212.1 million. We calculate our contract revenue backlog, or future contracted revenue, as the contract dayrate multiplied by the number of days remaining on the contract, assuming full utilization. Backlog excludes revenue for mobilization, demobilization, contract preparation and customer reimbursables. We may not be able to perform under our drilling contracts due to various operational factors, including unscheduled repairs, maintenance, operational delays, health, safety and environmental incidents, weather events in the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere and other factors (some of which are beyond our control), and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons. In some of the contracts, our customer has the right to terminate the contract without penalty and in certain instances, with little or no notice. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance coverage has become more expensive, may become unavailable in the future, and may be inadequate to cover our losses. Our insurance coverage is subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance, does not cover all types of losses and, in some situations, may not provide full coverage for losses or liabilities resulting from our operations. In addition, due to the losses sustained by us and the offshore drilling industry in recent years, primarily as a result of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, we are likely to continue experiencing increased costs for available insurance coverage, which may impose higher deductibles and limit maximum aggregated recoveries, including for hurricane-related windstorm damage or loss. Insurance costs may increase in the event of ongoing patterns of adverse changes in weather or climate. Further, we may not be able to obtain windstorm coverage in the future, thus putting us at a greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions and other hazards. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our rigs or liftboats, including severe weather, terrorist acts, piracy, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. As a result of a number of recent catastrophic weather related and other events, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from several hurricanes. As a result, over the past five years our insurance costs increased significantly, our deductibles increased and our coverage for named windstorm damage was restricted. Any additional severe storm activity in the energy producing areas of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the future could cause insurance underwriters to no longer insure U.S. Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. A number of our customers that produce oil and natural gas have previously maintained business interruption insurance for their production. This insurance is less available and may cease to be available in the future, which could adversely impact our customers’ business prospects in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and reduce demand for our services. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control 24 Table of Contents of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these clients will necessarily be financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may be effectively prevented from enforcing these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger clients. Additionally, from time to time we may not be able to obtain agreement from our customer to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Our international operations are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties not generally associated with domestic operations. An element of our business strategy is to continue to expand into international oil and natural gas producing areas such as West Africa, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. We operate liftboats in West Africa, including Nigeria, and in the Middle East. We also operate drilling rigs in India, Southeast Asia, Saudi Arabia, Mexico and West Africa. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings and piracy; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts, disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages or strikes, particularly in the West African and Mexican labor environments; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; • imposition or changes in enforcement of local content laws, particularly in West Africa where the legislatures are active in developing new legislation; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. In 2010, the level of political unrest, acts of terrorism, and organized criminality in Nigeria increased as a part of efforts of militant groups in the country to disrupt the presidential election, which has been postponed until April 2011. The level of political unrest, terrorism, organized criminality and piracy in Nigeria is expected to continue until and after the presidential election. In the past, many of our customers in Nigeria, including Chevron Corporation, have interrupted their activities during these episodes of increased terrorism, piracy and armed conflict. These interruptions in activity can be prolonged, during which time we may not receive dayrates for our liftboats. In early 2011, political and civil unrest escalated in the Middle East and North Africa, including in Egypt and Libya. We operate drilling rigs and liftboats in the Middle East and could be impacted by the instability in the region. While we do not operate in the countries that are experiencing this instability and our operations have not been impacted by such instability, our customers who operate drilling rigs and liftboats in the affected countries could mobilize their assets to the countries in which we operate, which could lead to increased competition for us in these countries, potentially resulting in lower utilization and lower dayrates for 25 Table of Contents our drilling rigs and liftboats in the region. In addition, if the unrest spreads to other oil and natural gas producing countries in the region, including those in which we operate, our operations could be delayed, hindered, or indefinitely postponed. The occurrence of any of these contingencies could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Many governments favor or effectively require that liftboat or drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts against local competitors. Our non-U.S. contract drilling and liftboat operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling rigs and liftboats, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors, the ownership of assets by local citizens and companies, and duties on the importation and exportation of units and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in developing countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater risk and uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Due to our international operations, we may experience currency exchange losses when revenue is received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or when we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenue because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a few energy companies. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Chevron Corporation and Saudi Aramco accounted for 20%, 17% and 14% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, respectively. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected if these customers interrupt or curtail their activities, terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew their existing contracts or refuse to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. The loss of any of these or any other significant customer could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our existing jackup rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification rigs, which may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. Many of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet. In addition, all of the new rigs under construction are of higher specification than our existing fleet. While Hercules has signed agreements to manage the construction and operations of the two ultra high specification harsh environment jackup drilling rigs on order for Discovery Offshore, 21 of our 30 jackup rigs are mat-supported, which are generally limited to geographic areas with soft bottom conditions like much of the Gulf of Mexico. Most of the rigs under construction are currently without contracts, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. Particularly in periods in which there is decreased rig demand, such as the current period, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification jackup rigs such as ours. In the past, lower specification rigs have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which may adversely impact our business. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and therefore have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to 26 Table of Contents changes in market conditions. Because a majority of our rigs were designed specifically for drilling in the shallow-water U.S. Gulf of Mexico, our ability to move them to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deepwater drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification jackup rigs, semisubmersible drilling rigs or drillships. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a decline in demand for lower specification jackup rigs like ours, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. One of our customers, PEMEX, has indicated a shifting focus in drilling rig requirements since the beginning of 2008, with more emphasis placed on newer, higher specification rigs. Demand in Mexico for our jackup rig fleet declined and the future contracting opportunities for such rigs in Mexico could diminish. We may consider future acquisitions and may be unable to complete and finance future acquisitions on acceptable terms. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire or incorrectly predict operating results. We may consider future acquisitions which could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Unless we have achieved specified financial covenant levels, our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to make acquisitions involving the payment of cash or the incurrence of debt. If we are restricted from using cash or incurring debt to fund a potential acquisition, we may not be able to issue, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient equity that may be required for any such permitted acquisition or investment. In addition, barring any restrictions under the Credit Agreement, we still may not be able to obtain, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing or funding that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. Closing of the February 2011 Asset Purchase Agreement with Seahawk is subject to bankruptcy court approval, as well as regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. Our 2011 Credit Amendment included a modification to, among other things, allow for the use of cash to purchase assets from Seahawk, to the extent set forth in our Asset Purchase Agreement and exempt the pro forma treatment of historical results from the Seahawk assets with respect to the calculation of the financial covenants in the Credit Agreement. If we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to retain or attract skilled workers could hurt our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our rigs and liftboats. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work. In periods of economic crisis or during a recession, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining our skilled workers as these workers may seek employment in less cyclical or volatile industries or employers. In periods of recovery or increasing activity, we may have to increase the wages of our skilled workers, which could negatively impact our operations and financial results. 27 Table of Contents Although our domestic employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Governmental laws and regulations, including those related to climate and emissions of “greenhouse gases,” may add to our costs or limit drilling activity and liftboat operations. Our operations are affected in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board, the United States Customs and Border Protection Service, the Department of Interior and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, as well as private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and the applicable regulations and standards of governmental authorities and organizations. Moreover, the cost of compliance could be higher than anticipated. Similarly, our international operations are subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, certain international conventions and the laws, regulations and standards of other foreign countries in which we operate. It is also possible that existing and proposed governmental conventions, laws, regulations and standards, including those related to climate and emissions of “greenhouse gases,” may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or limit our activities or the activities and levels of capital spending by our customers. In addition, as our vessels age, the costs of drydocking the vessels in order to comply with governmental laws and regulations and to maintain their class certifications are expected to increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with or a breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to regulations that require us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals, control the discharge of materials into the environment, require the removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. For example, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units and liftboats in navigable U.S. waters and some offshore areas, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills or other unauthorized discharges of chemicals or wastes resulting from those operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Some of these laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new requirements, both in U.S. waters and internationally, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs and liftboats as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our fleet by extending the economic life of existing rigs and liftboats, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement units. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs include fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in dayrates. We do not expect our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenue. Operating revenue may fluctuate as a function of changes in 28 Table of Contents dayrate, but costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not de-man those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We make upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, including when we acquire units or when repairs or upgrades are required by law, in response to an inspection by a governmental authority or when a unit is damaged. We also regularly make certain upgrades or modifications to our drilling rigs to meet customer or contract specific requirements. Upgrade, refurbishment and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems; • latent damages to or deterioration of hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • failure or delay in obtaining acceptance of the rig from our customer; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability or delay in obtaining customer acceptance or flag-state, classification society, certificate of inspection, or regulatory approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade and refurbishment projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures. Failure to complete an upgrade, refurbishment or repair project on time may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling or liftboat contract and could put at risk our planned arrangements to commence operations on schedule. We also could be exposed to penalties for failure to complete an upgrade, refurbishment or repair project and commence operations in a timely manner. Our rigs and liftboats undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair generally do not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We are from time to time involved in various litigation matters. The numerous operating hazards inherent in our business increases our exposure to litigation, including personal injury litigation brought against us by our employees that are injured operating our rigs and liftboats. These matters may include, among other things, contract dispute, personal injury, environmental, asbestos and other toxic tort, employment, tax and securities litigation, and litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. We have extensive litigation brought against us in federal and state courts located in Louisiana, Mississippi and South Texas, areas that were significantly impacted by hurricanes during the last several years and recently by the Macondo well blowout incident. The jury pools in these areas have become increasingly more hostile to defendants, particularly corporate defendants in the oil and gas industry. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter. Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with defending the lawsuits, the diversion of our management’s resources and other factors. Changes in effective tax rates, taxation of our foreign subsidiaries, limitations on utilization of our net operating losses or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From time to time, Congress and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. We cannot determine whether, or in what form, legislation will ultimately be enacted or what the impact of any such legislation would be on our profitability. If these or other changes to tax laws are enacted, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Our future effective tax rates could also be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the ultimate repatriation of earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the United States, or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the potential examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities where we file tax returns. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the provisions of U.S. law on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified, repealed or waived. We are subject to U.S. federal laws that restrict maritime transportation, including liftboat services, between points in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common stock. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our liftboats in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our liftboats, fines or forfeiture of the liftboats. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal these restrictions to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades currently reserved for U.S.-flag vessels under the federal laws. We believe that interest groups may continue efforts to modify or repeal these laws currently benefiting U.S.-flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in increased competition, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our liquidity depends upon cash on hand, cash from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. Our liquidity depends upon cash on hand, cash from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. The size of our revolving credit facility was reduced by the 2009 Credit Amendment from $250 million 30 Table of Contents to $175 million and by the 2011 Credit Amendment from $175 million to $140 million. The availability under the revolving credit facility is to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes and cannot be used to prepay outstanding term loans under our credit facility. All borrowings under the revolving credit facility mature on July 11, 2012, and the revolving credit facility requires interest-only payments on a quarterly basis until the maturity date. No amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2010, although $11.5 million in stand-by letters of credit had been issued under it. The remaining availability under the revolving credit facility is $163.5 million at December 31, 2010. As of March 3, 2011, the effective date of the 2011 Credit Amendment, there were no amounts outstanding and $10.9 million in standby letters of credit issued leaving remaining availability of $129.1 million under the revolving credit facility. We currently maintain a shelf registration statement covering the future issuance from time to time of various types of securities, including debt and equity securities. If we issue any debt securities off the shelf registration statement or otherwise incur debt, we may be required to make payments on our term loan. We currently believe we will have adequate liquidity to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. However, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings to fund operations and under the terms of the amendments to our credit facility, we may be required to use the proceeds of any capital that we raise to repay existing indebtedness. Furthermore, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings or asset sales to avoid a breach of our financial covenants in our Credit Facility to refinance our indebtedness or for general corporate purposes. We are a holding company, and we are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We currently conduct our operations through, and most of our assets are owned by, both U.S. and foreign subsidiaries, and our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries that we require to pay our debt service obligations, including payments on our convertible notes. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by our subsidiaries to further taxation. The inability to transfer cash from our subsidiaries to us may mean that, even though we may have sufficient resources on a consolidated basis to meet our obligations, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from subsidiaries to the parent company in order to provide funds for the payment of the parent company’s obligations. We limit foreign ownership of our company, which may restrict investment in our common stock and could reduce the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation limits the percentage of outstanding common stock and other classes of capital stock that can be owned by non-United States citizens within the meaning of statutes relating to the ownership of U.S.-flagged vessels. Applying the statutory requirements applicable today, our certificate of incorporation provides that no more than 20% of our outstanding common stock may be owned by non-United States citizens and establishes mechanisms to maintain compliance with these requirements. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock because holders may be unable to transfer our common stock to non-United States citizens. Any attempted or purported transfer of our common stock in violation of these restrictions will be ineffective to transfer such common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of such common stock. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that any transfer, or attempted or purported transfer, of any shares of our capital stock that would result in the ownership or control of in excess of 20% of our outstanding capital stock by one or more persons who are not United States citizens for purposes of U.S. coastwise shipping will be void and ineffective as against us. In addition, if at any time persons other than United States 31 Table of Contents citizens own shares of our capital stock or possess voting power over any shares of our capital stock in excess of 20%, we may withhold payment of dividends, suspend the voting rights attributable to such shares and redeem such shares. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so investors in our common stock may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. Subject to Delaware law, our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our common stock, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of any applicable contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our equity securities. Accordingly, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Stockholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell our common stock and may lose the entire amount of their investment. Provisions in our charter documents, stockholder rights plan or Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 