Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our strategic plan calls for us to diversify our loan portfolio with increased emphasis on commercial lending. Commercial loans include multi-family and nonresidential mortgage loans, construction loans and business loans. At September 30, 2006, our loan portfolio included commercial loans totaling $96.3 million, or 24.2% of our total portfolio. It is our intention to significantly increase our origination of these types of loans. As part of our plan to grow and diversify the loan mix, we continue to expand our commercial lending business unit and expect to hire additional commercial lenders over the next several years. Our compensation and benefit expenses will increase significantly as we hire these lenders and associated support staff. We also expect that our construction lending program will also continue to expand in connection with our increasing strategic emphasis on commercial lending. Commercial loans are generally considered to involve a higher degree of credit risk than long-term financing of owner-occupied residential properties. The likelihood that these loans will not be repaid or will be late in paying is generally greater than with residential loans. Furthermore, it may take some time for us to attract lending business sufficient to offset the increased compensation and benefit expenses that results from hiring the additional personnel we will need. There can be no assurance that the lenders we hire will successfully grow our loan portfolio. Our strategic plan calls for us to expand our franchise through de novo branching. We are currently seeking to expand our branch network by up to five branches over the next three to five years. The first of these new branches is located in Verona, New Jersey and opened in November 2006. A second location has been identified in Clifton, New Jersey which we hope to open during the latter half of fiscal 2007. Until new branches attract sufficient business to offset the increased expenses incurred by de novo branching, the new branches are likely to reduce our earnings. There is no assurance, however, that we will be successful in opening de novo branches. Costs for land purchase and branch construction will adversely impact earnings going forward. We currently estimate that total land, construction and equipment costs could average as much as $3.1 million per branch and could be higher. The expenses associated with opening new offices, in addition to the personnel and operating costs that we will have once these offices are open, will significantly increase noninterest expenses. Because these expenses are in fixed assets, they will not result in any additional earnings but will result in a substantial increase in depreciation and occupancy expense. There can be no assurance when, or if, these new offices will open or that we will be successful in executing this part of the business plan. If we are able to locate and obtain suitable sites for these branches, there is no guarantee that these de novo branches will be profitable. Next Page 28 While not a de novo branch, per se, we also expect to incur additional costs associated with relocating and expanding the Bloomfield deposit branch. The new facility will be located on a property adjacent to our Bloomfield headquarters building where the branch is currently located. This relocation will enable us to greatly enhance and modernize the Bloomfield branch facility. Such enhancements will greatly support our customer service goals and objectives while expanding the office space available for the additional staff needed to support our growth plans. Specifically, our main office in Bloomfield currently houses our management staff as well as our lending and administrative operations. This space will need to be augmented in order to add the additional lenders and support staff called for by our growth plans. Like the do novo branches mentioned above, the relocation of the Bloomfield deposit branch is expected to increase our operating costs through various forms of additional occupancy and depreciation costs, We expect that changes in interest rates may have a significant, adverse impact on our net interest income. The income from our assets and the cost of our liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: (a) the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets such as loans and securities; and (b) the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and amounts we borrow. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. We, like many savings institutions, have liabilities that generally have shorter contractual maturities or other repricing characteristics than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities. Next Page 29 Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey and the New York metropolitan area. A downturn in economic conditions in the state and/or the surrounding region could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey and the New York metropolitan area. Any decline in the regional economy could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy and real estate values may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and more difficult to retain deposits. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in slower growth or reduction of our total deposits or having to pay more for our deposits. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation could have a material impact on us and our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Next Page 30 