D. RISK FACTORS If the events discussed in these Risk Factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the market price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones that may exist. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We cannot assure you that we will pay any dividends. We intend to pay dividends on a quarterly basis commencing in March 2006 in amounts determined by our board of directors. We expect our dividends will be substantially equal to the available cash from our operations during the previous quarter, less cash expenses and any reserves established by our board of directors. We expect that most of such expenses will initially be fixed and will consist primarily of technical management fees payable under our ship management agreements, directors’ fees, salaries and benefits of our executive officers, payments of insurance premiums, vessel taxes, payments of interest on $236 million of indebtedness that is outstanding under our credit facility, which we fixed at 5.6% as of October 18, 2005, payments of commitment fees and other financing costs under our credit facility, and other general and administrative expenses. For more information on our credit facility please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–Our Credit Facility.” There can be no assurance that we will not have other cash expenses or liabilities, including extraordinary expenses, which could include the costs of claims and related litigation expenses. There can be no assurance that the amounts currently anticipated for any of the items set forth above will not increase, that we will not have to fund any required capital expenditures for our vessels or that we will not be subject to other circumstances that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for the payment of dividends. In addition, we may acquire additional vessels, which may not benefit from the same chartering and management arrangements that we have for our initial fleet of seven vessels. Although our board does not currently anticipate establishing any reserves, there can be no assurance that our board of directors will determine not to establish reserves or otherwise change our dividend policy. The timing and amount of future dividends, if any, could be affected by various factors, including our earnings, financial condition and anticipated cash requirements, the loss of a vessel, the acquisition of one or more vessels, required capital expenditures, reserves established by our board of directors, increased or unanticipated expenses, including insurance premiums, a change in our dividend policy, increased borrowings, future issuances of securities or the other risks described in this section of the report, many of which will be beyond our control. In addition, the declaration of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. As a result, the amount of dividends actually paid may vary from the amounts currently estimated and such variations may be material. Also, these factors could result in a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that we have available for the payment of dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our credit facility. We have entered into a $401 million secured credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc that consists of a $236 million term loan, a $150 million vessel acquisition facility and a $15 million working capital facility. Our credit facility provides that we may not pay dividends if the charter-free market value of our vessels that secure the credit facility is less than 135% of our borrowings under the facility plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any interest rate swaps that we enter, if there is a continuing default under the credit facility or if the payment of the dividend would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant. Our ability to declare and pay dividends will therefore depend on whether we are in compliance with our credit facility, the market value of our vessels and the value of our swap agreements. Because we are not required, and do not expect to make, any principal payments during the first five years of the credit facility, the difference between the market value of our vessels and the outstanding borrowings under our credit facility may decrease over time, as vessels generally decrease in value as they age. Therefore, our ability to comply with our financial ratio covenants and to make dividend payments under our credit facility may decrease as the facility approaches its fifth anniversary. In addition, following the fifth anniversary of the credit facility, we will be required to make principal repayments of approximately $6 million per quarter on the term loan until its final maturity in 2015, when a final payment of approximately $121 million will be due. We will also be required to begin making principal repayments of our indebtedness, if any, that may then be outstanding under the vessel acquisition facility and the working capital facility. Therefore, unless we are able to refinance borrowings under our credit facility with new indebtedness that has a later maturity date, following the fifth anniversary of the credit facility, the amount of cash that we will have available to pay as dividends in any period will be decreased by the amount of any principal repayments that we are required to make. 7 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow additional amounts under our credit facility, and restrictive covenants in our credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us. Our credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland includes a $150 million vessel acquisition facility and a $15 million working capital facility. We may borrow amounts under the acquisition facility from time to time in connection with future vessel acquisitions and, if necessary, borrow amounts under the working capital facility to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to borrow amounts under these facilities will be subject to the execution of customary documentation, including security documents, satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Our ability to borrow amounts under the vessel acquisition facility will also be subject to, among other things, all of our borrowings under the credit facility not exceeding 65% of the charter-free market value of the vessels that secure our obligations under the credit facility, calculated as though we had completed the subject transaction. Our ability to borrow under the vessel acquisition facility, in each case, will be subject to the vessel’s age, size and hull type meeting certain criteria and our lender’s approval of the vessel acquisition. Our lender’s approval of the vessel acquisition will be based on the lender’s satisfaction of the vessel’s ability to generate earnings that are sufficient to fund related principal payments as they become due and our ability to raise additional capital through equity issuances in amounts acceptable to our lender. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of the vessel acquisition facility without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. The credit facility imposes additional operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: · pay dividends if the charter-free market value of our vessels that secure our obligations under the credit facility is less than 135% of our borrowings under the credit facility plus the notional or actual cost of terminating any interest rates swaps to which we are a party, if there is a continuing default under the credit facility or if the payment of the dividend would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; · incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; · change the management of our vessels without the prior consent of the lender; · permit liens on our assets; · sell our vessels; · merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; · enter into certain types of charters; and · enter into a new line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lender’s interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lender’s permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. 8 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain new debt financing. In addition, our charters include provisions that will generally require us to use our best efforts to (i) negotiate security provisions with future lenders that would allow the charterers to continue their use of our vessels so long as they comply with their charters, regardless of any default by us under the loan agreement or the charters and (ii) arrange for future lenders to allow the charterers to purchase their loans and any related security at par if we default on our obligations under our charters or their loans. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to obtain acceptable financing in the future, increase the costs of any such financing to us or increase the time that it takes to refinance our indebtedness. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy our debt service obligations with our cash flow from operations, we may have to sell our assets. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations for any reason, our lenders could declare their debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on vessels in our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by Marshall Islands law. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend and any such dividend may be discontinued at the discretion of our board. We are highly dependent on the charterers and OSG. All of our vessels are chartered to wholly owned subsidiaries of OSG, which we refer to collectively as the charterers. The charterers’ payments to us under the charters are our sole source of revenue. OSG has guaranteed the payment of charter hire by the charterers. We are highly dependent on the performance by the charterers of their obligation under the charters. Any failure by the charterers or OSG, as the guarantor of charter hire payments, to perform their obligations would materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and cash available for the payment of dividends. Our stockholders do not have any direct recourse against the charterers or OSG. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth. We intend to grow our fleet by acquiring additional vessels in the future. Our future growth will primarily depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · adequately employing any acquired vessels; · managing our expansion; and · obtaining required financing on acceptable terms so that the acquisition is accretive to earnings and dividends per share. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans, that we will be able to employ acquired vessels under charters or ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those we have obtained from OSG and its subsidiaries or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. 9 Table of Contents Our dividend policy is subject to change at the discretion of our board of directors. We currently intend to distribute all of our available cash from our operations, less cash expenses, to our stockholders in the form of dividends. Currently, we do not anticipate that our board will establish any reserves. However, our dividend policy is subject to change at any time at the discretion of our board and our board may elect to change our dividend policy by establishing a reserve for, among other things, the repayment of our credit facility or to help fund the acquisition of a vessel. It is likely that our board would establish a reserve to repay indebtedness if, as the maturity of our credit facility approaches in 2015, it becomes clear that refinancing terms, or the terms of a vessel sale, are unacceptable or inadequate. If our board were to establish such a reserve, the amount of cash available for dividend payments would decrease by the amount of the reserve. Agreements between us and OSG and its affiliates may be less favorable than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The memoranda of agreement, the charters, the ship management agreements and the other contractual agreements we have with OSG and its affiliates were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of the public offering of our shares, the purchase of our vessels and other related transactions. Because we were a wholly owned subsidiary of OSG prior to the completion of the IPO, the negotiation of the memoranda of agreement, the charters, the ship management agreements and our other contractual arrangements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. Our charters begin to expire in 2010 unless extended at the option of the charterers, and we may not be able to re-charter our vessels profitably. Four of our charters expire approximately six years after the date of delivery of the chartered vessel to us and three expire approximately five years following such date, unless in each case extended at the option of the applicable charterer for additional one-, two- or three-year periods. The charterers have the sole discretion to exercise those options. We cannot predict whether the charterers will exercise any of their extension options under one or more of the charters. The charterers will not owe any fiduciary or other duty to us or our stockholders in deciding whether to exercise the extension options, and the charterers’ decisions may be contrary to our interests or those of our stockholders. We cannot predict at this time any of the factors that the charterers will consider in deciding whether to exercise any of their extension options under the charters. It is likely, however, that the charterers would consider a variety of factors, which may include the age and specifications of the chartered vessel, whether the vessel is surplus or suitable to the charterer’s requirements and whether more competitive charter hire rates are available to the charterers in the open market at that time. If the charterers decide not to extend our current charters, we may not be able to re-charter our vessels with terms similar to the terms of our charters. We may also employ the vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate volatility than the long-term time charter market in which we operate. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to re-charter all of our vessels, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. 10 Table of Contents If a time charter is renewed, the charter terms providing for profit sharing will remain in effect and the charterer, at the time of exercise, will have the option to select a basic charter rate that is equal to (i) 5% above the published one-, two- or three-year time charter rate (corresponding to the extension length) for the vessel’s class, as decided by a shipbrokers panel, or (ii) the basic hire rate set forth in the charter. The shipbrokers panel will be The Association of Shipbrokers and Agents Tanker Broker Panel or another panel of brokers mutually acceptable to us and the charterer. If a charterer were to renew a charter, the renewal charter rate could be lower than the charter rate in existence prior to the renewal. Furthermore, if our charters were to be renewed, we would not be able to take full advantage of more favorable spot market rates, should they exist at the time of renewal. As a result, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders could be significantly reduced. Our vessels, which currently operate in pools, may cease operating in those pools. Our three VLCCs currently participate in the Tankers International Pool, which consists of OSG and eight other tanker companies, and our four Aframax tankers currently participate in the Aframax International Pool, which has seven members, including OSG. In a pooling arrangement, the net revenues generated by all of the vessels in a pool are aggregated and distributed to pool members pursuant to a pre-arranged weighting system that recognizes each vessel’s earnings capacity based on its cargo capacity, speed and consumption, and actual on-hire performance. The charterers currently operate our VLCCs in the Tankers International Pool and our Aframaxes in the Aframax International Pool. Under our charter arrangements, we are entitled to share in the revenues that the charterers realize from operating our vessels in these pools in excess of the basic hire paid to us. Pooling arrangements are intended to maximize tanker utilization. Although OSG has indicated that it intends to keep all of our vessels in the pooling arrangements they are currently in, we cannot assure you that OSG will continue to use pooling arrangements for our vessels or any of the vessels it manages. Also, if we were to acquire any additional vessels, we cannot assure you that they would operate in pools, particularly if those vessels were not chartered to OSG. Further, because OSG voluntarily participates in the pools, we cannot predict whether the pools our vessels participate in will continue to exist in the future. If for any reason our vessels cease to participate in a pooling arrangement, their utilization rates could fall and the amount of additional hire paid could decrease, either of which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. If Tanker Management opts to terminate any or all of our management agreements upon 90 days notice beginning in October 2007, our operating expenses could materially increase. Under our ship management agreements, Tanker Management Ltd., or Tanker Management, a wholly owned subsidiary of OSG, is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of our vessels and receives a technical management fee for its services. Each ship management agreement with Tanker Management is coterminous with the charter for the same vessel, but is cancelable by Tanker Management for any reason upon 90 days notice following the second anniversary of the agreement. In addition, we may terminate the ship management agreements for any reason at any time upon 90 days advance notice. Each charterer has the right to approve any replacement manager that we select; however, the approval may not be unreasonably withheld. In addition, each charterer has the right to cause us to change the manager of its vessel under certain circumstances if it is dissatisfied with the manager’s performance. In the event the ship management agreements are terminated in October 2007 by Tanker Management or sooner by us, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain similar fixed rate terms from another manager. In addition, if we terminate the ship management agreements, we may be required to pay drydocking expenses that have been incurred by Tanker Management, which could be substantial, to the extent those expenses have not been recouped through the drydock component of the technical management fee. If we incur greater expenses under replacement management agreements or due to the termination of our ship management agreements, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders could be significantly reduced or eliminated. Because we are a newly formed company with no separate operating history, our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results. We are a newly incorporated company with no individual operating history. Four of the vessels we purchased from OSG were delivered to OSG between 2001 and 2004, one was delivered in 1997 and the remaining two were delivered in 1994. The historical predecessor combined carve-out financial statements included in this report have been prepared on a carve-out basis and reflect the historical business activities of OSG relating to our vessels. These predecessor financial statements do not reflect the results we would have obtained under our current fixed rate long-term charters, ship management agreements and our financing arrangements and in any event are not a meaningful representation of our future results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We did not perform underwater inspections of our vessels. Although we performed physical inspections of the vessels, we did not perform any underwater inspections either prior to or after their delivery in October 2005. As a result, we will not be aware of any damage to the vessel that may have existed at the time of delivery and which could only be discovered through an underwater inspection. We agreed to purchase the vessels on an “as is” basis, subject to OSG being responsible for any class condition or recommendation that is found to have existed prior to delivery of the vessels. However, if any damage is found, it may be difficult to prove that such damage existed prior to delivery of the vessel, in which case we could incur substantial costs both to repair the damage and in seeking reimbursement for such costs. OSG’s other business activities may create conflicts of interest. Under our charter arrangements with OSG, we are entitled to receive variable additional hire in amounts based on whether a vessel is part of a pooling arrangement, is subchartered by the charterer under a time charter or is used on the spot market. OSG currently operates, and we expect the charterers to continue to operate, our VLCCs in the Tankers International Pool and our Aframaxes in the Aframax International Pool. When operated in a pool, chartering decisions are made by the pool manager and vessel earnings are based on a formula designed to allocate the pool’s earnings to vessel owners based on attributes of the vessels they contributed, rather than amounts actually earned by those vessels. For these reasons, it is unlikely that a conflict of interest will arise between us and OSG while our vessels are operated in a pool. However, if OSG withdraws from a pool or our vessels cease operating in a pool for any other reasons, chartering decisions will effectively be made by OSG. Although our time charter arrangements expressly prohibit OSG from giving preferential treatment to any of the other vessels owned, managed by or under the control of OSG or its affiliates when subchartering any of our vessels, conflicts of interest may arise between us and OSG in the allocation of chartering opportunities that could reduce our additional hire, particularly if our vessels are subchartered by OSG in the time charter market outside of a pool. We are leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility. We have entered into a $401 million secured credit facility under which we initially borrowed approximately $236 million under a term loan to finance a portion of the cash purchase price for our vessels. In addition, we will have available to us under the same facility a $15 million working capital line of credit and a $150 million vessel acquisition line of credit. We are required to apply a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on borrowings under the facility. Our credit facility, which is secured by, among other things, mortgages over all of our vessels, assignments of earnings and insurances and pledges over our bank accounts, requires that we comply with various operating covenants and maintain certain financial ratios, including that the charter-free market value of our vessels that secure the credit facility be no less than 120% of our borrowings plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any swap agreements that we enter in order for us to satisfy collateral maintenance requirements and that the charter-free market value of our vessels that secure the credit facility be no less than 135% of our borrowings plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any swap agreement that we enter in order for us to pay dividends. We pay a floating rate of interest under our credit facility, although we fixed the interest rate on the drawn portion of the facility at 5.6% as of October 18, 2005. 12 Table of Contents We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company, and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of our vessels, and payments under our charters are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to pay dividends depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. Our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends. Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In particular, U.S. holders who are individuals would not be eligible for the 15% tax rate on qualified dividends. Based on our operations, representations previously made by OSG, including representations that certain terms of the ship management agreements and the charters with OSG’s subsidiaries are consistent with normal commercial practice and the opinion of tax counsel dated October 18, 2005, we believe that it is more likely than not that we are not currently a PFIC. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that it is more likely than not that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and that the assets we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and projected future operations. In addition, our tax counsel’s opinion was based on representations of OSG that were not reviewed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. stockholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make an election available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, such stockholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period of our common stock. The 15% maximum tax rate for individuals would not be available for this calculation. See “Item 10. Taxation–United States Federal Income Tax Consideration” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. In addition, even if we are not a PFIC, under proposed legislation, dividends of a corporation incorporated in a country without a “comprehensive income tax system” paid to U.S. individuals would not be eligible for the 15% tax rate. Although the term “comprehensive income tax system” is not defined in the proposed legislation, we believe this rule would apply to us because we are incorporated in the Marshall Islands. 13 Table of Contents Our operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which will reduce our cash flow. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder in August of 2003. Based on OSG’s ownership and our review of applicable SEC documents, we believe that we do qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption in the future and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. For example, if stockholders with a 5% or greater interest in our stock, including OSG or any of its affiliates, were to collectively own 50% or more of the outstanding shares of our stock on more than half the days during the taxable year, we might not be able to qualify for exemption under Code Section 883. OSG’s affiliate, OSG International, Inc., or OIN, owns approximately 44.5% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, if one or more shareholders other than OSG and its affiliates own more than 5% of our common stock for more than half the days during the taxable year, we could lose the benefit of this tax exemption for such year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status in the future. If we are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be subject to taxation in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If we were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of our profits could be subject to UK corporate tax, which currently has a maximum rate of 30%. We intend to operate in a manner so that we do not have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom and so that we are not resident in the United Kingdom, including by locating our principal place of business outside the United Kingdom, requiring our executive officers to be outside of the United Kingdom when making any material decision regarding our business or affairs and by holding all of our board meetings outside of the United Kingdom. However, because certain of our executive officers and directors reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that we are subject to UK corporate tax. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, we could incur substantial legal costs defending our position, and, if we were unsuccessful in our defense, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY Vessel values and charter rates have recently been near historically high levels, and significant decreases in values or rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The tanker industry historically has been highly cyclical and both charter rates and vessel values have recently reached historical highs. If the tanker industry is depressed in the future when our charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market at that time. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. Currently, vessel values are at or near historically high levels while charter rates have receded from their historical peaks in the fourth quarter of 2004. There can be no assurance that vessel values will not decline from current levels or that charter rates will be sufficient to provide us with additional hire payments. 14 Table of Contents The highly cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may adversely affect our earnings. Factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our vessels and result in significant fluctuations in the amount of additional hire we earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: · demand for oil and oil products, which affect the need for tanker capacity; · global and regional economic and political conditions which among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; · changes in the production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, which impact the need for tanker capacity; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; · environmental concerns and regulations; · weather; and · competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · environmental and maritime regulations. An oversupply of new vessels may adversely affect charter rates and vessel values. If the capacity of new ships delivered exceeds the capacity of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, the newbuilding order book for the next five years equaled about 26% of the existing world tanker fleet as of March, 2006 and we cannot assure you that the order book will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline and the value of our vessels could be adversely affected. The amount of additional hire that we receive under our charter arrangements, if any, will generally depend on prevailing spot market rates, which are volatile. Our initial fleet of seven vessels are operated under time charters with the charterers, and additional hire is paid to us pursuant to a charter framework agreement entered among us and OIN and each of our and its subsidiaries. We receive a fixed minimum daily basic charter rate and may receive additional hire under these charter arrangements. Additional hire, if any, is paid quarterly in arrears. The amount of additional hire is subject to variation depending on the charter hire received by the charterers through their pooling arrangements, or if a vessel is not operated in a pool, charter rates in the time charter or spot charter markets, each of which is highly dependent on general tanker market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will receive additional hire for any quarter. 15 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect our business. Additional terrorist attacks like those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005, the outbreak of war or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters. We conduct our operations internationally, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. From time to time, vessels in our fleet call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Libya, Syria and Iran. Libya currently is not subject to economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, but continues to be identified as a state sponsor of terrorism. Syria and Iran continue to be subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and are identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent our vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view such port calls negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. The value of our vessels, which are near historically high levels, may be depressed at a time and in the event that we sell a vessel. Tanker values have generally experienced high volatility and values are currently near historically high levels. Investors can expect the fair market value of our tankers to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels and other modes of transportation. In addition, although four of our seven tankers were built in 2001 or more recently, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of our vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If for any reason we sell a tanker at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the tanker’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus, which could reduce our ability to pay dividends. Vessel values may be depressed at a time when we are required to make a repayment under our credit facility, or when our credit facility matures, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to refinance our credit facility. In the event of the sale or loss of a vessel, our credit facility requires us to prepay the facility in an amount proportionate to the market value of the sold or lost vessel compared with the total market value of all of our vessels before such sale or loss. If vessel values are depressed at such a time, our liquidity could be adversely affected as the amount that we are required to repay could be greater than the proceeds we receive from a sale. In addition, declining tanker values could adversely affect our ability to refinance our credit facility at its maturity in 2015, as the amount that a new lender would be willing to lend on the same terms may be less than the amount we owe under the expiring facility. 16 Table of Contents We operate in the highly competitive international tanker market which could affect our financial position if the charterers do not renew our charters. The operation of tankers and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products are extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies, as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially larger fleets and substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. During the term of our charters, our exposure to this competition is limited because of the predominantly fixed rate nature of our charters. In the event that the charterers do not renew the charters when they expire (beginning in 2010) or terminate the charters for any reason, we will have to compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies for charters. Due in part to the fragmented tanker market, competitors with greater resources may be able to offer better prices than us, which could result in our achieving lower revenues from our vessels. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or other liabilities under environmental laws. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. OPA provides for the scheduled phase-out of all non double-hull tankers that carry oil in bulk in U.S. waters. The International Maritime Organization, or IMO, and the European Union also have adopted separate phase-out schedules applicable to single-hull tankers operating in international and EU waters. These regulations will reduce the demand for single-hull tankers, force the remaining single-hull vessels into less desirable trading routes, increase the number of ships trading in routes open to single-hull vessels and could increase demands for further restrictions in the remaining jurisdictions that permit the operation of these vessels. As a result, single-hull vessels are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. Although all of the tankers we acquired are double-hulled, we cannot assure you that these regulatory programs will not apply to vessels acquired by us in the future. 17 Table of Contents In addition, in complying with OPA, IMO regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. As a result of accidents such as the November 2002 oil spill from the Prestige, a 26 year old single-hull tanker unrelated to us, we believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non-double-hull phase-out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to us. Future accidents can be expected in the industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks, which could impair the ability of the charterers to make payments to us. Our tankers and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events could impair the ability of the charterers to make payments to us under our charters. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to make us whole in the event of a casualty or other catastrophic event, or fail to cover all of the inherent operational risks associated with the tanker industry. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Under the ship management agreements, Tanker Management is responsible for arranging insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against, and we are responsible for the premium payments on such insurance. This insurance includes marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks and crew insurance, and war risk insurance. Tanker Management is also responsible for arranging loss of hire insurance in respect of each of our vessels, and we are responsible for the premium payments on such insurance. This insurance generally provides coverage against business interruption for periods of more than 21 days (in the case of our VLCCs) or 14 days (in the case of our Aframaxes) per incident (up to a maximum of 120 days) per incident, following any loss under our hull and machinery policy. We will not be reimbursed under the loss of hire insurance policies, on a per incident basis, for the first 21 days of off hire in the case of our VLCCs and for the first 14 days in the case of our Aframaxes. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. If insurance premiums increase, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the loss of a vessel would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest our tankers, which could interrupt the charterers’ or our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt the charterers’ or our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. 18 Table of Contents Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may be unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; mergers and strategic alliances in the tanker industry; market conditions in the tanker industry; changes in government regulation; shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The tanker industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common stock in this industry may be equally volatile. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market including sales of shares by our large stockholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales or the perception that these sales could occur could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. OSG International, Inc., or OIN, a subsidiary of OSG, beneficially owns approximately 44.5% of our outstanding common stock. OIN may sell its shares in unregistered sales that are subject to certain limitations on the timing, amount and method of those sales imposed by Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933. In addition to the unregistered sales referred to above, pursuant to a registration rights agreement that we and OIN have entered, OIN will have the right to cause us to register the sale of shares of our common stock beneficially owned by it, subject to the same lock up provisions described above. If OIN were to sell a large number of its shares pursuant to a registered offering, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public markets that sales by OIN might occur could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. OSG is able to influence us, including the outcome of stockholder votes. OSG beneficially owns approximately 44.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of its ownership of our common stock, OSG is able to influence matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the nomination and election of directors and the outcome of any corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant transactions. 19 Table of Contents We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA, and the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. Therefore, the rights of stockholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can not predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions that any particular United States court would reach or has reached. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Our bylaws restrict stockholders from bringing certain legal action against our officers and directors. Our bylaws contain a broad waiver by our stockholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of stockholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bylaws that may discourage a change of control. Our bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: · a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, elected without cumulative voting; · directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common stock issued and outstanding; · advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; · a limited ability for stockholders to call special stockholder meetings; and · our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preferred stock and to issue the preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 