Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. Risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect our business and operation. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult market and economic conditions may adversely affect our industry and our business. The financial crisis and the resulting economic downturn in the latter years of the last decade had a significant adverse impact on the banking industry, and particularly community banks. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increased delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and sustained higher unemployment negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. As a result of these market conditions and the raising of credit standards, our industry experienced commercial and consumer deficiencies, low customer confidence, market volatility and generally sluggish business activity. Although general economic conditions nationally and locally in our market areas have improved over the past three years and show signs of continued improvement, unemployment levels and business activity across a wide range of industries and regions, particularly in our Florida markets, have not fully recovered to historical levels prior to 2007. Loan demand has not returned to pre-recession levels, and competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, despite recent increases in property values in our markets, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages, which declined during the recession, have not fully recovered. 22 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that the current positive economic trends will continue or that market and economic conditions will return to pre-recession levels in the near future. The improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values, rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly than other economic sectors. If the positive movement in these economic indicators in our market areas subsides or conditions once again worsen, the adverse effects of the recent economic downturn on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market would likely exacerbate and may result in increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Any such negative events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not maintain stability within the U.S. banking system. Since 2008, the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others have taken numerous legislative and regulatory actions to stabilize the U.S. banking system and to prevent future financial crises like the one experienced in 2008 and 2009. These measures have included the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which authorized the Treasury to purchase troubled assets and capital securities from banks and their holding companies under the TARP program; significant financial reforms under the Dodd-Frank Act; homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; efforts by the Federal Reserve to purchase U.S. Treasury bonds; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. While the banking system in the United States has substantially stabilized, it is unknown whether these legislative and regulatory initiatives will produce broad, long-term stability, particularly if conditions in the real estate markets remain weak or worsen or if any significant negative economic developments occur as a result of fiscal and political uncertainties in the United States and abroad. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to fully stabilize the financial markets and prevent similar future crises, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. We and our bank subsidiary are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. As a registered bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary is also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the Arkansas State Bank Department. Banking industry regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Complying with such regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. The act requires the issuance of a substantial number of new regulations by federal regulatory agencies which will affect financial institutions, many of which have yet to be issued or implemented. 23 Table of Contents As the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated under the act are implemented, there could be additional new federal or state laws, regulations and policies regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Additionally, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry or other new legislation or regulations could adversely impact our operations and our financial performance by subjecting us to additional costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services. As regulation of the banking industry continues to evolve, we expect the costs of compliance to continue to increase and, thus, to affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. If these developments negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategies, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects. Additional bank failures or further changes to the FDIC insurance assessment system may increase our FDIC insurance assessments and result in higher noninterest expense. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the $250,000 per depositor coverage limit on federal deposit insurance provided by the FDIC. The FDIC has taken a number of actions since 2008 in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF depleted by the increased deposit insurance coverage and the high number of bank failures. Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule implementing additional changes to the deposit insurance assessment system, as authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule, among other things, changes the assessment base for insured institutions, suspends indefinitely certain requirements of the FDIC to pay dividends from the DIF to prevent the DIF from becoming unnecessarily large and adopts, in place of the dividends, progressively lower assessment rate schedules when the reserve ratio exceeds certain levels. Additionally, the final rule changes the method of calculating assessment rates for large institutions and highly complex institutions. We are generally unable to control the amount and timetable for payment of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. There is no guarantee that our assessment rate will not increase in the future. Additionally, if there continue to be historically high numbers of bank or financial institution failures in the foreseeable future or the recently adopted changes do not have their desired effect of strengthening the DIF reserve ratio, the FDIC may further revise the assessment rates or the risk-based assessment system. Such changes may require us to pay higher FDIC premiums than our current levels, which would increase our noninterest expense. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and monetary policy. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, our one-year ratio of interest-rate-sensitive assets to interest-rate-sensitive liabilities was 92.1% and our cumulative repricing gap position was a negative 4.2% of total earning assets, resulting in a limited impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating rate loans made up 12.9% of our $4.48 billion total loan portfolio. A loan is considered fixed rate if the loan is currently at its adjustable floor or ceiling. In addition, 55.4% of our loans receivable and 78.4% of our time deposits at December 31, 2013, were scheduled to reprice within 12 months and our other rate sensitive asset and rate sensitive liabilities composition is subject to change. Significant composition changes in our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position and interest rate changes would have more of an impact on our earnings. 24 Table of Contents Our results of operations are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by the Federal Reserve Board involving monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Liberty Bancshares, Inc. Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected if we fail to realize the expected benefits of the Liberty acquisition or it takes longer than expected to realize those benefits. Following our acquisition of Liberty Bancshares, Inc. (“Liberty”) and its bank subsidiary, Liberty Bank of Arkansas (“Liberty Bank”), on October 24, 2013, we began the process of integrating the businesses of Liberty and the Company. While we substantially completed the integration of the core operating systems of Liberty during the fourth quarter of 2013, the overall integration of the two businesses will continue during 2014. This integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses and the loss of customers and their business and deposits. It may also divert management attention and resources from other operations and limit the Company’s ability to pursue other acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will realize the cost savings and other financial benefits of the acquisition when and in the amounts expected. We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Liberty that are materially greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value adjustments. We accounted for the Liberty acquisition under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of Liberty at fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Under purchase accounting, we have until one year after the acquisition to finalize the fair value adjustments, meaning we could materially adjust until then the preliminary fair value estimates of Liberty’s assets and liabilities based on new or updated information. We recorded at fair value all credit-impaired loans acquired in the merger of Liberty Bank into Centennial Bank based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows—the “non-accretable difference”—is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans. Risks Related to Our Business Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect us. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our secured loans. We endeavor to maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb future losses that may occur in our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses for non-covered loans was approximately $39.0 million, or 0.93% of our total loans receivable not covered by loss share, a decrease of 13.6% from December 31, 2012. In determining the size of the allowance, we analyze our loan portfolio based on our historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. The economic conditions particularly in our Florida market have improved but not to pre-recessions levels. These conditions may continue or could even worsen. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient to absorb future loan losses, and increased loan loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. When there is an economic downturn it is more difficult for us to estimate the losses that we will experience in our loan portfolio. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a negative effect on our operating results. 25 Table of Contents Our high concentration of real estate loans exposes us to increased lending risk. As of December 31, 2013, the primary composition of our total loan portfolio was as follows: • commercial real estate loans (excludes construction/land development) of $1.94 billion, or 43.4% of total loans; • construction/land development loans of $611.1 million, or 13.6% of total loans; • commercial and industrial loans of $517.3 million, or 11.5% of total loans; • residential real estate loans of $1.24 billion, or 27.6% of total loans; and • consumer loans of $69.6 million, or 1.6% of total loans. Commercial real estate, construction/land development and commercial and industrial loans, which comprised 68.5% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013, expose us to a greater risk of loss than our residential real estate and consumer loans, which comprised 29.1% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. Approximately 90.5% of our loans as of December 31, 2013, are to the borrowers in Alabama, Arkansas and Florida, the three states in which we have our primary market areas. An adverse development with respect to the market conditions of these specific market areas could expose us to a greater risk of loss than a portfolio that is spread among a larger geography base. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans exposes us to greater risk associated with those types of loans. The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan, or in the most extreme cases, we may have to foreclose. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. We have 84.6% of our loans as real estate loans primarily in Arkansas, Florida and South Alabama, and this poses a concentration risk, especially if the Florida area does not continue to improve or once again deteriorates resulting in depressed sales prices and low sales, combined with increased delinquencies and foreclosures on residential and commercial real estate loans. Depressed local economic and housing markets have led to loan losses and reduced earnings in the past and could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings. Beginning in 2007, our Florida markets experienced a dramatic reduction in housing and real estate values, coupled with significantly higher unemployment. These conditions contributed to increased non-performing loans and reduced asset quality during this time period. While market conditions in our Florida markets have begun to improve, we continue to experience higher non-performing loans and reduced asset quality in these markets as compared to pre-recession levels. As of December 31, 2013, our non-performing non-covered loans totaled approximately $38.3 million, or 0.91% of total non-covered loans. Non-performing non-covered assets were approximately $68.4 million as of this same date, or 1.07% of total non-covered assets. In addition, we had approximately $30.1 million in accruing non-covered loans that were between 30 and 89 days delinquent as of December 31, 2013. If these markets do not continue to improve or once again deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. 26 Table of Contents Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. If economic and market conditions do not continue to improve, we could incur additional losses relating to increased non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then-fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of December 31, 2013, as additional facts become known about relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability and our assumptions, it may result in our making additions to the provision for loan losses during 2014. Any failure by management to closely monitor the status of the market and make the necessary changes could have a negative effect on our operating results. Additionally, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. Generally, trends in these factors were negative in the few years following 2007 in our Florida markets and have only partially recovered as of December 31, 2013. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenging, our business may be adversely affected. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our Florida markets were to stop improving or once again deteriorate, a significant portion of our loans in our Florida market that were not acquired from the FDIC could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2013, non-covered loans in the Florida market totaled $1.00 billion, or 24.0% of our non-covered loans receivable. Of the Florida loans for which we do not have loss sharing, approximately 93.7% were secured by real estate. In prior years, the difficult local economic conditions have adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral in Florida, and they could do so again if the markets were to stop improving or once again deteriorate in the future. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment on our loans in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Because we have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, a significant loss on any of those loans could materially and adversely affect us. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, our bank subsidiary is generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 20% of its Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for loan losses. As of December 31, 2013, the legal lending limit of our bank subsidiary for secured loans was approximately $111.8 million. Currently, our board of directors has established an in-house lending limit of $20.0 million to any one borrowing relationship without obtaining the approval of both our Chairman and our director Richard H. Ashley. Currently, we have a total of $777.4 million committed to the aggregate group of borrowers whose total debt exceeds the established in-house lending limit of $20.0 million. A portion of our loans are to customers who have been adversely affected by the home building industry. Customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where the decrease in housing and real estate values are more pronounced. Consequently, we have faced delinquencies and non-performing assets as these customers have been forced to default on their loans. If the housing markets were to stop improving or once again deteriorate additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs relating to our loan portfolios may occur. 27 Table of Contents Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits, and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. In addition, local deposits reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are less stable time deposits, which may need to be replaced with higher cost funds. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. The loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect us. Our success depends significantly on our Chairman, John W. Allison, and our executive officers, especially C. Randall Sims, Randy E. Mayor, Brian S. Davis and Kevin D. Hester and on our regional bank presidents Tracy M. French, Robert F. Birch and Russell D. Carter, III. Centennial Bank, in particular, relies heavily on its management team’s relationships in its local communities to generate business. Because we do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with our employees, our executive officers and regional bank presidents are free to resign at any time and accept an employment offer from another company, including a competitor. The loss of services from a member of our current management team may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Recent legislation imposes certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements, which could adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted a final rule implementing certain executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These provisions make applicable to all public companies certain executive compensation requirements similar to those imposed on participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The SEC rule requires public companies to provide their shareholders with non-binding advisory votes (i) at least once every three years on the compensation paid to their named executive officers, and (ii) at least once every six years on whether they should have a “say on pay” vote every one, two or three years. A separate, non-binding advisory shareholder vote will be required regarding golden parachute compensation arrangements for named executive officers when a shareholder vote takes place on mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or other transactions that would trigger the parachute payments. Also, the SEC is required to ensure that national listing exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, prohibit the listing of any companies that fail to adopt clawback policies pursuant to which incentive-based compensation paid to executives will be subject to clawback based on financial results which were subsequently restated within three years of such payment. The amount of the clawback is the amount in excess of what would have been paid under the restated results. As a public company, we are subject to the requirements of these new SEC rules, whereas some of our competitors are not publicly traded and therefore not subject to such rules. These provisions and any future rules issued by the Treasury or the SEC could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. 28 Table of Contents Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through the acquisition of banks, particularly FDIC-assisted transactions, and de novo branching represent important components of our business strategy. Any future acquisitions we might make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • credit risk associated with the acquired bank’s loans and investments; • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In the current economic environment, we may continue to have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These risks include, among other things, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to have some de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carry with them numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • economic downturns in the new market; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions) and de novo branching. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. Our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC limit our ability to enter into certain change of control transactions, including the sale of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders, without the consent of the FDIC. The loss sharing agreements we entered into with the FDIC in connection with our recent FDIC-assisted acquisitions require the consent of the FDIC in connection with certain change of control transactions, including the sale by the Company or by any individual shareholder, or group of shareholders acting in concert, of shares of our common stock totaling more than 9% of our outstanding common stock. This requirement could restrict or delay our ability to raise additional capital to fund acquisition or growth opportunities or for other purposes, or to pursue a merger or consolidation transaction that management may believe is in the best interest of our shareholders. This could also restrict or delay the ability of our shareholders to sell a substantial amount of our shares. In addition, if such a transaction were to occur without the FDIC’s consent, we could lose the benefit of the loss-share coverage provided by these agreements for certain covered assets. 29 Table of Contents There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with our bank acquisitions which would have a negative impact upon our future income. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions of banks. We have acquired 15 banks since we started our first subsidiary bank in 1999, including six in 2010, three in 2012 and one in 2013, and will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, with a primary focus on Arkansas, Florida, South Alabama and other nearby markets. In most cases, other than in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions and our acquisition of Vision Bank in 2012, our acquisition of a bank includes the acquisition of all of the target bank’s assets and liabilities, including its loan portfolio. There may be instances when we, under our normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below our standards, or the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause us to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan losses, which would have a negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with our acquisitions. In connection with our acquisitions since 2010, we have acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, there is no assurance that the non-impaired loans we acquired will not become impaired or that the impaired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to the acquired loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential and commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs we make to our loan portfolio, and, may consequently, reduce our net income. Such fluctuations may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios we have acquired in the acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although in connection with our 2010 FDIC-assisted acquisitions we entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios we acquired will be indemnified by the FDIC, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms, which begin to expire in 2015; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. The expiration of our loss sharing agreements in connection with our 2010 FDIC-assisted acquisitions may result in write-downs to our FDIC indemnification asset to the extent expected loan losses do not occur within the loss share coverage window, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In conjunction with our FDIC-assisted transactions, we entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which cover realized losses on loans, foreclosed real estate and certain other assets. These agreements are recorded as assets on our consolidated balance sheet to the extent of the expected loss share indemnification. These loss share assets are measured separately from the loan portfolios because they are not contractually embedded in the loans and are not transferable with the loans should we choose to dispose of them. Fair values at the acquisition dates were estimated based on projected cash flows available for loss share based on the credit adjustments estimated for each loan pool and the loss share percentages. Subsequent to the acquisition date, reimbursements received from the FDIC for actual incurred losses will reduce the loss share assets. Reductions to expected credit losses, to the extent such reductions to expected credit losses are the result of an improvement to the actual or expected cash flows from the covered assets, will also reduce the loss share assets. Increases in expected credit losses will require an increase to the allowance for loan losses and a corresponding increase to the loss share assets. As the loss share agreements approach the various expiration dates, there could be unexpected volatility in the indemnification asset as future expected loan losses might become projected to occur outside of the loss share coverage reimbursement window. If the loan losses projected to occur outside the loss share coverage reimbursement period are substantial, the resulting reductions in our FDIC indemnification asset could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Our recent acquisitions have increased our commercial real estate loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. With our 2010 FDIC-assisted acquisitions and subsequent market acquisitions, our commercial loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger portion of our total loan portfolio than they were prior to these acquisitions. These types of lending are generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Our acquisitions have caused us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures, which may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to cause the material information that we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be recorded, processed, summarized, and reported to the extent applicable within the time periods required by the SEC’s rules and forms. As a result of our acquisitions, we may implement changes to processes, information technology systems and other components of internal control over financial reporting as part of our integration activities. Notwithstanding any changes to our disclosure controls and procedures resulting from our evaluation of the same after the acquisition, our control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. Our failure to fully comply with the loss sharing provisions relating to our FDIC acquisitions could jeopardize the loss-share coverage afforded to certain individual or pools of assets, rendering us financially responsible for the full amount of any losses related to such assets. In connection with our FDIC acquisitions in 2010, we entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC whereby the FDIC agreed to cover 70% or 80% of the losses on certain single family residential mortgage loans and certain commercial loans (together, “covered assets”), and 30%, 80% or 95% of the losses on such covered assets in excess of thresholds stated in the loss sharing agreements. Our management of and application of the terms and conditions of the loss sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements related to the covered assets is monitored by the FDIC through periodic reports that we must submit to the FDIC and on-site compliance visitations by the FDIC. If we fail to fully comply with its obligations under the loss sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements relating to the acquisitions, we could lose the benefit of the loss-share coverage as it applies to certain individual or pools of covered assets. Without such loss-share coverage, we would be solely financially responsible for the losses sustained by such individual or pools of assets. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive. We experience strong competition, not only from commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, but also from mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial services providers operating in or near our market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of our competitors are much larger national and regional financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage against them as a result of our smaller size and resources and our lack of geographic diversification. Many of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation that we are as an FDIC-insured institution, which gives them greater operating flexibility and reduces their expenses relative to ours. 31 Table of Contents We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small and mid-sized businesses that we target and to use a relationship-based approach similar to ours. In addition, our competitors may seek to gain market share by pricing below the current market rates for loans and paying higher rates for deposits. Competitive pressures can adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. We may incur environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients, which may adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing and other systems. The security and integrity of our systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets. We cannot assure you that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures. Additionally, we face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose us to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance. 32 Table of Contents Our recent results do not indicate our future results and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to grow and, as a result, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us and our bank subsidiary to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe that our existing capital (which well exceeds the federal and state capital requirements) will be sufficient to support our current operations, anticipated expansion and potential acquisitions, factors such as faster than anticipated growth, reduced earnings levels, operating losses, changes in economic conditions, revisions in regulatory requirements, or additional acquisition opportunities may lead us to seek additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. If we need additional capital but cannot raise it on terms acceptable to us, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant influence over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 17.45% of our common stock as of December 31, 2013. Consequently, if they vote their shares in concert, they can significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our officers and directors may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting the Company with which you disagree. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on us. Like other coastal areas, our markets in Alabama and Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Stock The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding subordinated debentures or if certain defaults relating to those debentures occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we have $60.8 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our capital stock. If we elect to defer or if we default with respect to our obligations to make payments on these subordinated debentures, this would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of our common stock, we may enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Although we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2003 and expect to continue this practice, we cannot assure you of our ability to continue. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • We may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our bank subsidiary, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of that bank to pay dividends. • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. • Before dividends may be paid on our common stock in any year, payments must be made on our subordinated debentures. • Our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event our bank subsidiary becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed for trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved Commission staff comments received by the Company more than 180 days prior to the end of the fiscal year covered by this annual report. 