Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. Risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect our business and operation. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult market and economic conditions have continued to adversely affect our industry and our business. The banking industry, and particularly community banks, in 2010 continued to experience effects of the uncertainty in the financial markets and related economic downturn that resulted from negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with substantial volatility in oil prices and other factors. The dramatic declines in the housing market in 2008 and 2009, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have continued to negatively impact the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and result in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may remain depressed for some time. Reduced availability of commercial credit and sustained higher unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. As a result of this market turmoil and tightening of credit, our industry has continued to experience increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, reduced customer confidence, increased market volatility and generally reduced business activity. Lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other remained anemic in 2010 due to continued concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy, and depository institutions continued to experience increased competition for deposits with decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the reduced confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. While general economic trends have shown signs of improving in recent months, we cannot be certain that the current market and economic conditions will substantially improve in the near future. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of the recent market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience additional increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Any such negative events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA authorized the Treasury, under the TARP program, to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies. The purpose of TARP was to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to one another. The Treasury allocated $250 billion toward TARP’s Capital Purchase Program to fund the purchase of equity securities from participating institutions. As described above, we issued to the Treasury Series A preferred shares and a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to TARP’s Capital Purchase Program in January 2009. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; efforts by the Federal Reserve to purchase U.S. Treasury bonds; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. 25 Table of Contents In July 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. The act mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. Due to the comprehensive nature of the Dodd-Frank Act and the potential for new measures, the full impact of the act is difficult to assess. The purposes of these legislative and regulatory actions were to stabilize the U.S. banking system and to prevent future financial crises like the one experienced in 2008 and 2009. While the banking system has achieved some stabilization, it is unknown whether the EESA, the Dodd-Frank Act and the other regulatory initiatives described above will produce broad, long-term stabilization. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to fully stabilize the financial markets and prevent similar future crises, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. We and our bank subsidiary are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. As a registered bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiary is also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the Arkansas State Bank Department. Banking industry regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Complying with such regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. As the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated under the act are implemented, there could be additional new federal or state laws, regulations and policies regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Additionally, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry or other new legislation or regulations could adversely impact our operations and our financial performance by subjecting us to additional costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and/or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services. As regulation of the banking industry continues to evolve, we expect the costs of compliance to continue to increase and, thus, to affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. If these developments negatively impact our ability to implement our business strategies, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. The recently-enacted Dodd-Frank Act included provisions which repealed all federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts. As a result, one year after the date of enactment of the act, on July 21, 2011, financial institutions may begin paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Depending on competitive responses, we may choose to begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or to maintain current customers and existing deposit balances. If we take such action, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Additional bank failures or further changes to the FDIC insurance assessment system may increase our FDIC insurance assessments and result in higher noninterest expense. In 2008, the EESA temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor, and the FDIC took additional temporary measures to provide increased coverage on certain deposit accounts in response to the recent financial crisis. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the $250,000 per depositor coverage limit. The FDIC has taken a number of actions since 2008 in order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) depleted by the increased deposit insurance coverage and the high number of bank failures. Such actions have included a uniform increase in assessment rates of insured institutions, modifications to the risk-based rate assessment system, a one-time special assessment, and requiring prepayment of estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, in lieu of a second special assessment. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration program to help further bolster the DIF reserve ratio as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the new plan, the FDIC will forego a three basis point assessment rate increase scheduled to take place on January 1, 2011, and maintain the current schedule of assessment rates for all depository institutions. The new plan provides that, at least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule implementing additional changes to the deposit insurance assessment system, as authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act, to be effective April 1, 2011. The final rule, among other things, changes the assessment base for insured institutions from adjusted domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity capital (Tier 1 capital). The rule also suspends indefinitely certain requirements of the FDIC to pay dividends from the DIF to prevent the DIF from becoming unnecessarily large and adopts, in place of the dividends, progressively lower assessment rate schedules when the reserve ratio exceeds certain levels. Additionally, the final rule changes the method of calculating assessment rates for large institutions and highly complex institutions, which the FDIC expects to result in higher assessment rates for these institutions and lower assessments for most other banks. We are generally unable to control the amount and timetable for payment of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. While we expect our deposit insurance assessments to decrease as a result of the recent changes to the deposit insurance assessment system, there is no guarantee that our assessment rate will not increase as a result of these changes. Additionally, if there continue to be historically high numbers of bank or financial institution failures in the foreseeable future or the recently adopted changes do not have their desired effect of strengthening the DIF reserve ratio, the FDIC may further revise the assessment rates or the risk-based assessment system. Such changes may require us to pay even higher FDIC premiums than our current levels, which would increase our noninterest expense. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and monetary policy. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. 27 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, our one-year ratio of interest-rate-sensitive assets to interest-rate-sensitive liabilities was 120.2% and our cumulative repricing gap position was 10.8% of total earning assets, resulting in a limited impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating rate loans made up 20.8% of our $2.47 billion loan portfolio. A loan is considered fixed rate if the loan is currently at its adjustable floor or ceiling. As a result of the declines in the interest rate environment since 2008, as of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $193.3 million of loans that cannot be additionally priced down but could price up if rates were to return to higher levels. In addition, 68.6% of our loans receivable and 75.1% of our time deposits at December 31, 2010, were scheduled to reprice within 12 months and our other rate sensitive asset and rate sensitive liabilities composition is subject to change. Significant composition changes in our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position and interest rate changes would have more of an impact on our earnings. Our results of operations are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by the Federal Reserve Board involving monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. Risks Related to Our Business Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect us. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our secured loans. We endeavor to maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb future losses that may occur in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we analyze our loan portfolio based on our historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. During 2010, we increased the allowance for loan losses by 24.2% due to the continued adverse economic conditions in our Florida market, particularly related to real estate, and to the increase in our impaired loans. As a result, as of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $53.3 million, or 2.2% of our total loans receivable. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient to absorb future loan losses, and increased loan loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. The current economic environment has made it more difficult for us to estimate the losses that we will experience in our loan portfolio. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our high concentration of real estate loans exposed us to increased lending risk. As of December 31, 2010, the primary composition of our loan portfolio was as follows: • commercial real estate loans (excludes construction and land development) of $1.05 billion, or 42.4% of total loans; • construction and land development loans of $476.1 million, or 19.3% of total loans; • commercial and industrial loans of $226.5 million, or 9.2% of total loans; • residential real estate loans of $620.8 million, or 25.1% of total loans; and • consumer loans of $52.1 million, or 2.1% of total loans. 28 Table of Contents Commercial real estate, construction and land development and commercial and industrial loans, which comprised 70.9% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, expose us to a greater risk of loss than our residential real estate and consumer loans, which comprised 27.2% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. Commercial real estate and land development loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. Approximately 96% of our loans are to the borrowers of the two states in which we have our market area, Arkansas and Florida. An adverse development with respect to the market conditions of these specific market areas could expose us to a greater risk of loss than a portfolio that is spread among a larger geography base. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans exposes us to greater risk associated with those types of loans. The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan, or in the most extreme cases, we may have to foreclose. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. We have 86.8% of our loans as real estate loans primarily in Arkansas and Florida where we have our market area, and this poses a concentration risk, especially when the Florida area suffers from depressed sales prices and low sales, combined with increased delinquencies and foreclosures on residential and commercial real estate loans. Deterioration in local economic and housing markets has led to loan losses and reduced earnings and could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings. Over the past three years, there has been a dramatic decrease in housing and real estate values, coupled with a significant increase in the rate of unemployment, in our Florida markets. These trends have contributed to an increase in our non-performing loans and reduced asset quality. As of December 31, 2010, our non-performing loans totaled approximately $49.5 million, or 2.62% of total non-covered loans. Non-performing assets were approximately $61.2 million as of this same date, or 2.08% of total non-covered assets. In addition, we had approximately $19.6 million in accruing loans that were between 30 and 89 days delinquent as of December 31, 2010. If market conditions further deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as banks continue to reassess the market value of their loan portfolios, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then-fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of December 31, 2010, as additional facts become known about relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability and our assumptions, it may result in our making additions to the provision for loan losses during 2011. Any failure by management to closely monitor the status of the market and make the necessary changes could have a negative effect on our operating results. 29 Table of Contents Additionally, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets. Generally, trends in these factors have been negative over the most recent three years in our Florida markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenging, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have experienced decreased growth or negative growth, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and has generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our Florida markets were to remain depressed or decline further, a significant portion of our loans in our Florida market that were not acquired from the FDIC could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2010, loans in the Florida market totaled $890.0 million, or 36.1% of our loans receivable. Of those loans, approximately 35.3% are not subject to loss sharing with the FDIC. Of the Florida loans for which we do not have loss sharing, approximately 86.7% were secured by real estate. The difficult local economic conditions have adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral in Florida and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment on our loans in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Because we have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, a significant loss on any of those loans could materially and adversely affect us. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, our bank subsidiary is generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 20% of its Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for loan losses. As of December 31, 2010, the legal lending limit of our bank subsidiary for secured loans was approximately $65.6 million. Currently, our board of directors has established an in-house lending limit of $20.0 million to any one borrowing relationship without obtaining the approval of any two of our Chairman, our Chief Executive Officer and our director Richard H. Ashley. Currently, we have a total of $267.1 million committed to the aggregate group of borrowers whose total debt exceeds the established in-house lending limit of $20.0 million. A portion of our loans are to customers who have been adversely affected by the home building industry. Customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where the decrease in housing and real estate values are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these customers are forced to default on their loans. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve substantially in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs relating to our loan portfolios may occur. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits, and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. In addition, local deposits reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are less stable time deposits, which may need to be replaced with higher cost funds. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. 30 Table of Contents The loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect us. Our success depends significantly on our Chairman, John W. Allison, and our executive officers, especially C. Randall Sims, Randy E. Mayor, Brian S. Davis and Kevin D. Hester and on our regional bank presidents. Centennial Bank, in particular, relies heavily on its management team’s relationships in its local communities to generate business. Because we do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with our employees, our executive officers and regional bank presidents are free to resign at any time and accept an employment offer from another company, including a competitor. The loss of services from a member of our current management team may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The TARP Capital Purchase Program and recent legislation impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements, which could adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The securities purchase agreement we entered into in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program required us to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the Treasury holds securities issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, including any common stock issuable under the warrants we issued to the Treasury. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The ARRA imposed further limitations on compensation while the Treasury holds equity issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Treasury released an interim final rule on TARP standards for compensation and corporate governance on June 10, 2009, which implemented and further expanded the limitations and restrictions imposed on executive compensation and corporate governance by the TARP Capital Purchase Program and ARRA. The rules apply to us as a recipient of funds under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The rules clarify prohibitions on bonus payments, provide guidance on the use of restricted stock awards, expand restrictions on golden parachute payments, mandate enforcement of clawback provisions unless unreasonable to do so, outline the steps compensation committees must take when evaluating risks posed by compensation arrangements, and require the adoption and disclosure of a luxury expenditure policy, among other things. New requirements under the rules include enhanced disclosure of perquisites and the use of compensation consultants, and a prohibition on tax gross-up payments. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted a final rule implementing certain executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These provisions make applicable to all public companies certain requirements similar to those already imposed on participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The new SEC rule requires public companies to provide their shareholders with non-binding advisory votes (i) at least once every three years on the compensation paid to their named executive officers, and (ii) at least once every six years on whether they should have a “say on pay” vote every one, two or three years. A separate, non-binding advisory shareholder vote will be required regarding golden parachute compensation arrangements for named executive officers when a shareholder vote takes place on mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or other transactions that would trigger the parachute payments. Also, the SEC is required to ensure that national listing exchanges, such as the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, prohibit the listing of any companies that fail to adopt clawback policies pursuant to which incentive-based compensation paid to executives will be subject to clawback based on financial results which were subsequently restated within three years of such payment. The amount of the clawback is the amount in excess of what would have been paid under the restated results. As a participant in the TARP program, we are exempted from the “say on frequency” vote requirement and are already subject to an annual “say on pay” vote requirement under the ARRA, as well as similar clawback requirements. However, if we redeem our Series A preferred shares held by the Treasury and terminate our participation in TARP, we will be subject to all of the requirements of the new SEC rule. These provisions and any future rules issued by the Treasury or the SEC could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. 31 Table of Contents If we participate in the SBLF program, we may not meet SBLF lending goals. We recently applied to participate in the Small Business Lending Fund (“SBLF”). If we participate in the SBLF, our senior preferred shares issued under the Capital Purchase Program would be refinanced to the SBLF program. The SBLF is designed to stimulate lending to small businesses and requires banks to increase lending to small businesses in order to benefit from favorable dividend rates on the senior preferred shares issued to the Treasury. If our lending to small businesses increases, the dividend rate that we must pay to the Treasury could fall to as low as 1%. However, if we do not increase our lending to small businesses after the first two years in the SBLF, we will be required to pay an additional 2% quarterly dividend penalty above the 5% dividend rate we currently pay under the Capital Purchase Program. Such an increase would occur approximately one year before the scheduled increase in our dividend rate under the Capital Purchase Program to 9%. The future demands for additional lending are unclear and uncertain. To avoid this 2% dividend penalty, we could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that we would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders’ best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. If we fail to meet SBLF lending goals, such failure could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition by increasing our overall cost of capital. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through the acquisition of banks particularly FDIC-assisted transactions and de novo branching represent important components of our business strategy. Any future acquisitions we might make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • credit risk associated with the acquired bank’s loans and investments; • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In the current economic environment, we may continue to have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These acquisitions involve risks similar to acquiring existing banks even though the FDIC might provide assistance to mitigate certain risks such as sharing in exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution. However, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time normally associated with preparing for integration of an acquired institution, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions. These risks include, among other things, the loss of customers, strain on management resources related to collection and management of problem loans and problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carry with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • economic downturns in the new market; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. 32 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions) and de novo branching. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. Our loss sharing agreements with the FDIC limit our ability to enter into certain change of control transactions, including the sale of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders, without the consent of the FDIC. The loss sharing agreements we entered into with the FDIC in connection with our recent FDIC-assisted acquisitions require the consent of the FDIC in connection with certain change of control transactions, including the sale by the Company or by any individual shareholder, or group of shareholders acting in concert, of shares of our common stock totaling more than 9% of our outstanding common stock. This requirement could restrict or delay our ability to raise additional capital to fund acquisition or growth opportunities or for other purposes, or to pursue a merger or consolidation transaction that management may believe is in the best interest of our shareholders. This could also restrict or delay the ability of our shareholders to sell a substantial amount of our shares. In addition, if such a transaction were to occur without the FDIC’s consent, we could lose the benefit of the loss-share coverage provided by these agreements for certain covered assets. There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with our bank acquisitions which would have a negative impact upon our future income. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions of banks. We have acquired 11 banks since we started our first subsidiary bank in 1999, including three in 2005, one in 2008, and six in 2010, and will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, with a primary focus on Arkansas and Florida. In most cases, other than in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions, our acquisition of a bank includes the acquisition of all of the target bank’s assets and liabilities, including its loan portfolio. There may be instances when we, under our normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below our standards, or the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause us to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan losses, which would have a negative impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with our acquisitions, all of which may not be supported by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. In connection with our FDIC-assisted acquisitions, we acquired a significant portfolio of loans. Although we marked down the loan portfolios we have acquired, there is no assurance that the non-impaired loans we acquired will not become impaired or that the impaired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs to this loan portfolio. Fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential and commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and, consequently, reduce our net income. Such fluctuations may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolios that we have acquired in the acquisitions and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the acquisitions will be indemnified by the FDIC, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. 33 Table of Contents Our recent acquisitions have increased our commercial real estate loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. With our recent acquisitions, our commercial loan and construction loan portfolios have become a larger portion of our total loan portfolio than it was prior to the acquisitions. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending, because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. The acquisitions from the FDIC have caused us to modify our disclosure controls and procedures, which may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to cause the material information that we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to be recorded, processed, summarized, and reported to the extent applicable within the time periods required by the SEC’s rules and forms. The internal controls over financial reporting of our FDIC-assisted acquisitions were excluded from the evaluation of effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the period ended December 31, 2010, because of the timing of the acquisitions. As a result of the acquisitions, however, we may be implementing changes to processes, information technology systems and other components of internal control over financial reporting as part of our integration activities. Notwithstanding any changes to our disclosure controls and procedures resulting from our evaluation of the same after the acquisitions, our control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, may not result in the material information that we are required to disclose in our SEC reports being recorded, processed, summarized, and reported adequately. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. Our failure to fully comply with the loss-sharing provisions relating to our FDIC acquisitions could jeopardize the loss-share coverage afforded to certain individual or pools of assets, rendering us financially responsible for the full amount of any losses related to such assets. In connection with the FDIC acquisitions, we entered into loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC whereby the FDIC has agreed to cover 70% or 80% of the losses on certain single family residential mortgage loans and certain commercial loans (together, “covered assets”), and 80% or 95% of the losses on such covered assets in excess of thresholds stated in the loss-sharing agreements. Our management of and application of the terms and conditions of the loss-sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements related to the covered assets is monitored by the FDIC through periodic reports that we must submit to the FDIC and on-site compliance visitations by the FDIC. If we fail to fully comply with its obligations under the loss-sharing provisions of the Purchase and Assumption Agreements relating to the acquisitions, we could lose the benefit of the loss-share coverage as it applies to certain individual or pools of covered assets. Without such loss-share coverage, we would be solely financially responsible for the losses sustained by such individual or pools of assets. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive. We experience strong competition, not only from commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, but also from mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial services providers operating in or near our market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of our competitors are much larger national and regional financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage against them as a result of our smaller size and resources and our lack of geographic diversification. Many of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation that we are as an FDIC-insured institution, which gives them greater operating flexibility and reduces their expenses relative to ours. 34 Table of Contents We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small and mid-sized businesses that we target and to use a relationship-based approach similar to ours. In addition, our competitors may seek to gain market share by pricing below the current market rates for loans and paying higher rates for deposits. Competitive pressures can adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. We may incur environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients, which may adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. As a service to our clients, Centennial Bank currently offers Internet banking. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients’ transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our recent results do not indicate our future results and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to grow and, as a result, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us and our bank subsidiary to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe that the $50 million in capital we obtained through the sale of the Series A preferred shares to the Treasury in January 2009, the $107.3 million we raised in a public offering of our common stock in September and October 2009 (net of underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering expenses) pursuant to a shelf registration statement, and our pre-existing capital (which already exceeded the federal and state capital requirements) will be sufficient to support our current operations, anticipated expansion and potential acquisitions, factors such as faster than anticipated growth, reduced earning levels, operating losses, changes in economic conditions, revisions in regulatory requirements, or additional acquisition opportunities may lead us to seek additional capital. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. If we need additional capital but cannot raise it on terms acceptable to us, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant influence over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned 22.5% of our common stock as of December 31, 2010. Consequently, if they vote their shares in concert, they can significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our officers and directors may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting the Company with which you disagree. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on us. Like other coastal areas, our markets in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes or other weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of hurricanes or other significant weather events. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A preferred shares and our common stock. Unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, with respect to the Series A preferred shares and our common stock, dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by our board of directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant and, under Arkansas law, may be paid only out of lawfully available funds. We are an entity separate and distinct from our bank subsidiary and derive substantially all of our revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, we are and will be dependent upon dividends from our bank subsidiary to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A preferred shares and our common stock. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event it is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on the Series A preferred shares or our common stock. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We are also subject to certain contractual restrictions that could prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends or making liquidation payments on our common stock or the Series A preferred shares. 36 Table of Contents The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding subordinated debentures or if certain defaults relating to those debentures occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, the Series A preferred shares and our common stock. We have $44.3 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock and the Series A preferred shares. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on the Series A preferred shares and our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Series A preferred shares or our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our capital stock (including the Series A preferred shares and our common stock). If we elect to defer or if we default with respect to our obligations to make payments on these subordinated debentures, this would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Series A preferred shares and our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of the Series A preferred shares or our common stock, we may issue additional series of subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of January 16, 2012 and the date on which all of the Series A preferred shares have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.0545 per share (adjusted for our 10% stock dividend in 2010) or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire any shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A preferred shares) or any trust preferred securities issued by us. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A preferred shares. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant we issued to the Treasury, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Although we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2003 and expect to continue this practice, we cannot assure you of our ability to continue. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • We may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our bank subsidiary, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of that bank to pay dividends. • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. • Before dividends may be paid on our common stock in any year, payments must be made on our subordinated debentures and the Series A preferred shares as described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report. • Our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. 37 Table of Contents If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event our bank subsidiary becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A preferred shares or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. We may not be able to redeem the Series A preferred shares or repurchase the warrant we issued to the Treasury. We may in the future attempt to redeem the Series A preferred shares and the warrant we issued to the Treasury in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the TARP Capital Purchase Program have evolved since the program’s initial implementation, and their scope, timing and effect could further change in the future. While we may wish to redeem the Series A preferred shares and repurchase the warrant we issued to the Treasury, we may not be permitted to do so. Any such transaction would require prior Federal Reserve and Treasury approval. Based on Federal Reserve guidelines, an institution must demonstrate an ability to access the long-term debt markets without reliance on the FDIC’s TLG Program, successfully demonstrate access to public equity markets and meet a number of additional requirements and considerations before repurchasing or redeeming any securities sold to the Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. These conditions on the repurchase or redemption of securities sold to Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program supplement, and do not supplant, the usual regulatory limitations that apply to the repurchase or redemption of capital instruments by bank holding companies. Bank supervisors will weigh an institution’s interest in repurchasing or redeeming outstanding securities issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program against the extent that the capital contribution represented by such securities has increased the institution’s soundness, capital adequacy and ability to lend. Supervisors must also confirm that the institution has a comprehensive internal capital assessment process before the institution will be permitted to repurchase or redeem such securities. As a result of these various conditions on our ability to repurchase or redeem capital instruments, it is uncertain if we will be able to redeem the Series A preferred shares and repurchase the warrant issued to the Treasury even if we have sufficient financial resources to do so. If we are unable to redeem the Series A preferred shares after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A preferred shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $2.5 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $4.5 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred shares could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The Series A preferred shares impact net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A preferred shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interests of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A preferred shares is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 0.56% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. 38 Table of Contents Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed for trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved Commission staff comments received by the Company more than 180 days prior to the end of the fiscal year covered by this annual report. 