risk factors should be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that we or persons acting on our behalf may issue. All written and oral forward-looking statements made in connection with this annual report that are attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to review or confirm analysts’ expectations or estimates or to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Further, the information about our intentions contained in this document is a statement of our intention as of the date of this document and is based upon, among other things, the existing regulatory environment, industry conditions, market conditions and prices, the economy in general and our assumptions as of such date. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon any changes in such factors, in our assumptions or otherwise. PART I In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we will refer to AgFeed Industries, Inc., a Nevada corporation, as "AgFeed," "our company," "we," "us," and "our." Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW We are a Nevada corporation engaged in the feed and commercial hog producing business in the People's Republic of China ("China" or the “PRC”) through our operating subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at Rm. A1001-1002, Tower 16, Hengmao Int'l Center, 333 S. Guangchang Rd., Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, PRC 330003. Our telephone number is +86-0791-6669099. Our website is http://www.agfeedinc.com. Our feed business consists of the research and development, manufacture, marketing and sale of premix feed and blended feed for use in the domestic animal husbandry markets, primarily for hog production in China. Premix is an animal feed additive that is broadly used in commercial animal production worldwide. The use of premix feed can significantly reduce an animal’s growth cycle, enabling the animal to reach market size sooner. We have been in the premix feed business since 1995 and now operate five premix feed manufacturing facilities located in the cities of Nanchang, Shandong, Shanghai, Nanning, and Hainan. 1 We entered the hog breeding and production business in November 2007. In this business, we mainly produce hogs for slaughter and sell breeding stock. We have one breeder farm and 29 meat hog producing farms in the Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Guangxi and Fujian provinces. We were incorporated as Wallace Mountain Resources Corp. on March 30, 2005 in Nevada. Since October 31, 2006, our principal place of business has been based in China. As a result of a merger into a wholly-owned subsidiary, we changed our name to AgFeed Industries, Inc. on November 17, 2006. FEED BUSINESS We manufacture, distribute, market and sell two main product lines - additive premix fodder for use in all stages of a pig’s life, and blended feeds. We conduct these operations through our subsidiaries Nanchang Best Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd. (“Nanchang Best”), Shanghai Best Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Best”), Guangzxi Huijie Sci. & Tech. Feed Co., Ltd., (“Guangxi Huijie”), Shandong AgFeed Agribusiness Co., Ltd. ("Shandong Feed"), and Hainan HopeJia Feed Co., Ltd. ("HopeJia"). We also provide extensive technical and veterinary support free of charge to our customers. Nanchang Best, Shanghai Best, Guangxi Huijie, Shandong Feed and HopeJia are collectively referred to as our "feed operating companies." They operate manufacturing facilities in Nanchang, Shanghai, Nanning, Shandong, and Hainan provinces, respectively. Nanchang Best and Guangxi Huijie are primarily responsible for our ongoing research and development efforts and share their expertise in this area with all of our manufacturing operations. There are no formal written agreements relating to these services as each of these companies are our wholly owned subsidiaries. AgFeed has received “Green Certification” from the Minister of Agriculture of PRC for its premix products under the brand label “BEST.” This green certification laid the ground for our Hog Farms to produce hogs providing green pork. Products Livestock producers may directly buy animal feed in finished form, referred to as “blended” feed, which contains a concentrate of additive premix fodder (“premix”) and the foundational grains blended together, or, they may choose to buy the premix and then combine it with protein, corn, hay, wheat and other elements readily available in the market to make their own blended feed. Additive premix fodder provides the essential amino acids and binder necessary for proper absorption of protein by pigs. Feeding pigs a balanced diet is an essential part of the pork profit equation. Management estimates that feed costs comprise 60-75% of a Chinese piggery’s expenses; therefore the quality of feed and nutrition has a significant effect on piggery profits. Our total combined feed output in 2008 was approximately 76,324 metric tons, consisting of 41,266 metric tons of premix fodder, 34,098 metric tons of blended feed, and 960 metric tons of other feed products. Pork premix According to the different growth stages of a pig, different additives are necessary to accelerate the growth of the animal and provide safe products for consumption. Premix additives are composed mainly of essential amino acids, vitamins, minerals, antibiotics and growth promoters. We market 21 different brands of premix fodder that are priced from standard to premium to satisfy wide ranging customer demand. Within each brand there are 7 different mixes that correspond to the different stages of a pig’s life cycle: newborn to 15 kg, 15-30 kg, 30-60 kg, market ready, over 60 kg boar, mating/pregnant and lactating. We provide superior customer service by customizing the premix to the specific needs of each customer. Large scale pig farms are typically the biggest consumers of our premix. Our veterinarians work with these large pig farms to determine the optimal formulation of feed. 2 Premix sales represent approximately 54% of our annual feed revenues and carry a gross profit margin of approximately 36.8%. Our ability to formulate customized premix fodder to meet customer specifications enables us to charge a premium for our products. The average price of our premix is $875/metric ton. We are also able to justify premium pricing due to the strong brand name recognition of our operating companies, hands-on after market support, and superior, more effective products developed as a result of a strong R&D program. Large scale piggeries are willing to pay a premium for more effective products as they are concerned with producing healthy piglets, controlling disease and marketing profitable pork products. Piglet blended feed Our piglet blended feed is designed to both nourish and protect newborns and is composed primarily of proteins, such as fish meal and soy bean (30%), and raw material grains, such as corn and chaff (roughly 65%). Local climate and environment also influence the formulation of the piglet blend. We sell blended feed for an average price of $658/metric ton. Blended feed contributes approximately 45% to our total feed revenues and has a gross margin of approximately 17.2%. As a result of government policies aimed at enhancing the commercialization of the hog industry and greater regulation requiring safeguards to the country’s food supply and food safety, we enjoy strong competitive edge in the pork premix feed market and the piglet blended feed market. Market Information The feed industry in China, initially developed during the 1980s, was transformed by the issuance of the feed and feed additives regulations in the early 1990s. These regulations emphasized labeling standards for the different grades of product. These standards assisted in regulating the feed industry’s expansion and aimed to eliminate substandard products and fraudulent labeling. China’s feed manufacturing industry is second only to the United States in volume. The feed industry grew to approximately 66 million tons in 1998, after growing at an annual rate of 15% from 1990 to 1998, and approximately 107 million tons in 2005 and 111 million tons in 2006. In 2007, China's feed industry grew to 123 million tons, 112 times the size in 1980. As incomes rise in China, annual meat consumption is expected to rise from the current 53 kg per person to around 70 kg per person in the coming years. The country's annual pork consumption almost doubled from 20kg per person in 1990 to 40kg per person in 2006. According to a report by the USDA Foreign Agricultural Services, developing countries average 24 kg per person annually while developed countries average 75 kg per person annually. It is estimated that 4 kg of feed grain are needed to produce 1 kg of pork. The animal feed industry in China is highly competitive with many regional players and locally recognized brands. We believe that the initial capital requirements with respect to entry into the industry are low, and consequently there is a great deal of competition between many smaller companies. The animal feed sector for pork has three primary markets: · additive premix fodder; · proteins; and · blended feed. We predominantly produce premix and blended feeds and do not presently compete in the protein market. A nutritionally complete feed includes three components: energy sources, such as course grains; protein sources, such as fish and soy meals; and premix consisting of essential amino acids, vitamins, minerals, antibiotics and growth promoters. Premix and proteins together are often referred to in the industry as “concentrate.” Premix fodders require greater technology to produce, and are often customized to each customer’s specifications. As such, premix carries the highest selling price per metric ton of all feed components. Livestock producers may directly buy animal feed in finished form, referred to as “blended feed,” or buy the component ingredients and mix the blend on their own. Typically, large-scale piggeries will purchase premix, as they have the scale to mix their own blended feeds. 3 Blended Feed Industry According to published reports from the China Feed Industry Association and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry, Ministry of Agriculture of the PRC, the blended feed market for pork was approximately $12 and $14 billion for 2004 and 2005, respectively. The largest player in the market had approximately a 7% market share, and 40 companies shared the top 33% of the market. From 2000 to 2006, blended feed sales have grown at an average annual rate of 4.5%. From 2005 to 2006, blended feed sale growth was 4.6%. Pork blended feed production grew approximately 0.61%, to 24.1 million metric tons, from 2006 to 2007 and sales increased 3% over 2006 levels. Premix Industry From 2000 to 2006, according published reports from the China Feed Industry Association and the Bureau of Animal Husbandry, Ministry of Agriculture of the PRC, premix industry sales grew at an average annual rate of 13.5%. There is no single dominant participant in China's premix market. Pork premix production for 2007 was 2.8 million metric tons, up 5% from 2006, while sales remained level. Sales and Marketing Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best have aggressively marketed and promoted the “Best” brand since their inception. Guangxi Huijie markets its products under the “Huijie” brand name. HopeJia’s feed products are marketed under the brand name “HeJie” and Shandong markets its products under the “AgFeed” brand name. Our feed operating companies send their sales force and technicians to the pig farms to educate their clients on new product developments and improvements to existing products. They also conduct educational seminars in pig farming regions to explain the benefits of a balanced, nutritious diet for pigs in producing a healthy herd and to educate farmers to properly prepare and mix feed components. While these services are not unique among premix manufacturers, we believe our services in this area are superior to our competitors as we have a highly responsive and experienced technical services team while our sales persons, most of whom majored in animal or veterinary science, are equipped with general service capabilities. As we market and sell directly to pig farmers, we are able to collect and analyze data which assists in the preparation and design of new products. We attend agricultural conventions that take place in the market areas where we conduct business as well as in provinces that we expect to enter. We also place advertisements and promotional pieces in agricultural trade journals. We sell our products directly to over 660 large-scale pig farms and to distributors reaching to the smaller privately-owned farms and backyard farmers. The sales data of distributors indicates that smaller farms tend to be more sensitive to price increases than the large-scale piggeries, with large-scale hog farms placing more emphasis on customer service and other ancillary services we provide. Starting in January 2007, we began to work with independently-owned and operated premix feed product distribution stores that exclusively distribute AgFeed brand premix feed products throughout China. This program allows us to cost-effectively sell our products to the individual “mom and pop” farmer that may raise only a few hogs per year for personal consumption or for sale in the marketplace as an additional source of income. These distribution stores generally sell 3 to 5 metric tons of feed per month. As of December 31, 2008, there were more than 1,000 locations open and operating using the AgFeed brand name. These distributors do not pay an initiation fee to become exclusive distributors of our products but do receive marketing and technical training from our staff. Each distributor signs an exclusive agreement with us, agreeing not to sell any other brand of animal feed products and to decorate its store with approved AgFeed marketing materials and signage. Additionally, these distributors are encouraged to buy animal health care products, such as quality vaccines and veterinary drugs that we sell as agent, benefiting from a diversified product structure. 4 In addition, each distributor must: (i) during a three month probationary period pass a screening process based on performance benchmarks, (ii) abide by our rules and receive ongoing training from our sales and technical staff, (iii) support the sales of new AgFeed products when launched in the distributor’s territory, and (iv) remain within our guidelines for payment of products purchased from us. Distributors receive discounted prices from the regular wholesale listed prices and have payment terms that are typically 15 days from the date of sale. These discounted prices earn the distributors an increased gross profit margin of approximately 5-10%. They build a relationship with the small farmers that in many cases are illiterate and continue to do business as they have always done. As part of the distribution arrangement, they have a specified territory that entitles them to the exclusive right to sell AgFeed products to small farm owners in that territory. As of December 31, 2008, each of the feed operating companies has the following customers for their respective feed products: Local Distributors Large Scale Pig Farm Distribution Chain Stores Total Nanchang Best 85 202 320 607 Shanghai Best 138 206 191 535 Guangxi Huijie 126 189 301 616 Shandong Feed 78 15 101 194 HopeJia 46 57 89 192 Suppliers Normally, purchases of raw materials are made on an “as needed” basis each month. Orders are managed by both our warehouse and purchasing managers together, each of whom is familiar with on-site inventory levels. We sign long-term contracts with leading soybean meal suppliers when our purchasing specialists deem it appropriate. We have also established long-term relationships with “accredited key suppliers” by setting up five supply bases in China’s largest corn production areas which centralize our purchasing and logistics resources, and reduce and remove agent commissions. We have implemented a "supplier accreditation system." Regularly, suppliers of raw materials are jointly selected and rated by our purchasing center and technical center according to the quality of their supplies, price and credit record. Generally, all of our purchases are made from qualified suppliers. Raw materials are generally purchased by our purchasing center to take advantage of the economies of scale associated with our size. Research and Development We engage in continuous research and development to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace and keep pace with current developments. We conduct these activities primarily through Nanchang Best and Guangxi Huijie. Their research and development results are shared with each of the feed operating companies. We also sponsor research alliances with Jiangxi Agricultural University, South China Agricultural University, Nanjing Agricultural University and Zhejiang Agricultural University. In addition to sponsoring national and provincial academic research projects at various academic institutions, in November 2004, Nanchang Best launched a fund called Best Fund contributing RMB 98,000 (US$12,250) to sponsor 12 research projects at Jiangxi Agricultural University. Nanchang Best retains proprietary rights to any research findings from these projects. 5 Intellectual Property We have registered the "AgFeed," “Best,” “Huijie,” and "HeJie" trade names used on our products with the China Trademark Bureau and these names are known in the provinces in which we conduct business. We do not hold any patents or intend to apply for patents on proprietary technology or formulas relating to our feed products. The formulas for our feed products are considered trade secrets and are protected as such. Government and Environmental Regulation Our feed products and services are subject to substantial regulation by governmental agencies responsible for the agricultural and commerce industries. We are required to obtain business and company registrations and production licenses under the laws and regulations of the PRC, the provincial governments of Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Shandong, and Guangxi provinces and the Shanghai City government. All of our feed products are certified on a regular basis and must be in compliance with the laws and regulations of provincial and other local governments and industry agencies. Prior to engaging in any production or marketing of feed products, all products must receive a earned formal approval production number pursuant to the National Code of Feed and Feed Additives, promulgated by the National State Council of the PRC and qualified products reports from the Technology and Supervision Bureau. All of our feed products have earned these formal approvals, which are valid for five years from the date of issuance. There is no material cost in obtaining and maintaining these licenses, but it is illegal to do business without them. If any production license or product permit were lost, production would need to cease until a new license or permit was obtained, which would likely take a minimum of 30 to 45 days to receive, and the loss of which would result in the possibility of regulatory fines. We are also subject to China’s National Environmental Protection Law as well as a number of other national and local laws and regulations involving pollutant discharge and air, water and noise pollution. The central government, through the Ministry of Agriculture, issues production licenses. The Ministry of Agriculture dispatches officials at the local level to review staff qualifications, production facilities, quality control, and management departments for competency. These licenses are valid for five years from the date of issuance. Provincial production permits are also required for all entities involved in the manufacture of animal feed and feed components. Provincial permits are issued for all products manufactured at each facility. Each facility has the necessary permits for all products produced at each of our operating facilities. These permits are valid for five years from the date of issuance. Competition The premix market in China is particularly fragmented with many companies and locally recognized brands. The largest player in the premix industry commands slightly more than 1% of the national market and no one company has yet taken a sizable market lead in terms of service, brand, or technology. Nanchang Best leads the pork premix market in the Jiangxi Province with an approximate 4% market share and also sells its products in neighboring regions such as Hubei, Henan and Fujian. Nanchang Best faces price competition from Da Bei Nong, one of its competitors in the large-scale farm market. We believe Da Bei Nong’s service is considered inferior to Nanchang Best’s, which has contributed to Nanchang Best's ability to maintain its lead in sales. 6 Sales made by Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best in Fujian province face strong competition in the large-scale piggery market from Fuj Minke Biology Company, which has well-known service, a flexible credit policy, and prices that are competitive with, if not lower than, the prices at which Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best sell their products. While both Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best are working to further develop and strengthen their connections to large-scale farms, Fuj Minke Biology Company does not pose a threat to their distributor sales. Zheng Da, the Sino-Thai joint venture of Charoen Pokphand, the largest business conglomerate in Thailand, is one of the largest premix producers. However, based on informal discussions that we have had with our customers, its prices tend to be higher than the prices at which Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best sell their products, though there is not a significant difference in the quality of their products. Zheng Da focuses only on the distributor market. Based on our independent investigations in the Shanghai area, Xinnong leads the market in sales with approximately 15,000 metric tons per year, competing directly with Shanghai Best on both pricing and service to large scale piggeries. Guangxi Huijie has an approximate 13% share of the overall feed market in its home province of Guangxi and competes directly with Guangxi Provimi. Guangxi Provimi sells the same products as Guangxi Huijie at similar price points and is considered by the marketplace to offer a product of similar quality to Guangxi Huijie’s. We believe that Guangxi Provimi does not provide the same quality of after sale technical support to its customers. Guangxi Huijie stands out in its market by providing its independently-owned distribution stores with an all-inclusive product package that includes quality veterinary drugs, vaccines, raw materials and breeders in addition to animal feed. HopeJia leads the premix market in Hainan Province with an approximate 25% market share. The direct competition facing HopeJia is not its competitors, but its own ability to upgrade customized products. HopeJia is enhancing its competitiveness in the blended feed market, benefiting from the economies of scale resulting from the synergies in our businesses. It mainly competes with SBT and JiaDa as they have lower prices and have been in business in this area longer than HopeJia. Shandong Feed is a newly founded premix feed company in Shandong Province. Benefiting from AgFeed’s 14 year experience in the manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing of pork premix feed, it is winning increasingly broader acceptance from the customers with its quality and high cost performance. Employees As of December 31, 2008, our feed operating companies had a total of 459 employees. The breakdown of our employees by location and department is: Nanchang Best Shanghai Best Guangxi Huijie Shandong Feed HopeJia Management 2 2 2 2 2 General Administration and Human Resources 9 10 8 2 7 Production 39 21 50 12 36 Sales 56 31 42 29 23 Purchasing 1 1 3 1 1 Finance 7 6 5 3 3 Technical Services 7 2 2 1 3 Quality Control 2 2 7 3 5 Research and Development 2 1 4 1 1 7 Facilities Nanchang Best is located in Chang Bei District Industrial Park, in Nanchang, Jiangxi province. It owns three buildings, one each for the office, manufacturing and an employee dormitory. Nanchang Best has been granted the right to use the land in Nanchang by the Municipal Administration of State-Owned Land through December, 2049. Shanghai Best is located in Qingcun Town, Fengxian District, Shanghai. It rents two workshop buildings and office space on which it conducts all manufacturing and business operations. The annual rent on the Shanghai property is approximately $80,000 and the lease runs through December 2017. Guangxi Huijie is located in Coastal Industrial Park, Liangqin District, Nanning City, Guangxi Province. Guangxu Huijie owns three buildings, an office building, production plant and an employee dormitory. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administrative Bureau of Langqin District, Nanning City through October, 2056. Shandong Feed is located at No. 4 Chuangye Street, East New Area, in the city of Taian, Shandong Province. This facility consists of four buildings, one each for manufacturing, offices, warehouse and dormitory facilities. Shandong Feed has been granted the right to use this land by the Shandong Provisional Government through July, 2052. HopeJia is located on South Wuting Road, Laocheng Development Zone, Chengmai County, Hainan Province. HopeJia owns three buildings, an office building, production plant and an employee dormitory. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administration Bureau of Hainan Province through Januar,y 2056. Commercial Hog Producing Business We raise, breed and sell hogs for use in China's pork production and hog breeding markets. We own one breeder farm and 29 meat hog producing farms located in Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Guangxi, and Fujian provinces, which are strategically located in or near the largest pork consumption areas in the PRC. We entered the hog farming business on November 9, 2007 as a result of our acquisition of ninety percent (90%) of the capital stock of Lushan Breeder Pig Farm Co., Ltd. ("Lushan"). Lushan owns and operates a breeder hog farm occupying 258,000 square meters located in the town of Hualin in Xingzi County, Jiangxi Province. Lushan is a mid-scale hog farm engaged in the business of raising, breeding and selling hogs in the PRC for use in the pork production market in the PRC. Lushan operates as a majority-owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best. In 2008, we acquired at least a majority interest in 29 meat hog producing farms in the Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Guangxi, and Fujian provinces through our subsidiaries - Nanchang Best, Shanghai Best, Guangxi Huijie and Jiangxi Best Swine Development Co. ("Best Swine"). Hog Production Our 29 meat hog producing farms generate revenue primarily from the sale of meat hogs to slaughterhouses. Our meat hogs are sold primarily in Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Guangxi, Fujian, Guangdong and other neighboring provinces. Lushan generates revenue primarily from the sale of breeder hogs to commercial hog farms and, to a lesser extent, the sale of meat hogs to hog slaughterhouses. It also generates revenue by providing consulting services to hog farmers in the areas of feed production, feed formulation and veterinary services. Lushan's customers include large-scale hog farms, mid-scale hog farms and small-scale farms. Our breeder hogs are sold throughout the PRC, primarily in southeastern China. 8 Breeder hogs are either purebred hogs or crossbred hogs that have the genetic trait for mating. Lushan uses hogs that contain this trait for breeding and it also sells them to commercial meat hog farms throughout the PRC so that the commercial farms may use the hogs in their own reproduction programs. Commercial sows (parent stock) are used for gestating and producing piglets. Among the purebred hogs, Lushan’s primary varieties are the Yorkshire, the Landrace and the Duroc. The Yorkshire, which originated in England, is known for its rapid growth, high rate of lean meat and its reproductive capacity. The Landrace, originated in Denmark, is also known for its rapid growth and its high rate of lean meat. The Duroc, which originated in the United States, is considered a highly-successful male parent in crossbreeding. Market Description General China is the world’s biggest hog producer and pork consumer; the global pig meat market is dominated by China. According to statistics from the US Department of Agriculture, China produces 50% of all the pig meat production in the world. For 2009, China is expected to produce close to 47.0 million metric tons of an estimated world production of approximately 95.0 million metric tons. According to a 2008 Agricultural Report published by Purdue University, China’s pork production in 2009 is forecast to recover 3% to 46.8 million metric tons up from the 2008 production of approximately 45.6 million metric tons. China had approximately 592 million head of hogs at the end of 2008, up from 2006 and 2007. Production in those years was affected by PRRS (Blue Ear Disease). This disease is now effectively under control and is not anticipated to have a negative effect on China's hog production in 2009. During late 2007 and the first half of 2008, short pork supplies pushed prices up sharply. Increased food prices were major factors in the rise of China's consumer price index. China consumes over 500 million pigs a year. In terms of meat consumption in China, beef accounts for approximately 9%, poultry for approximately 21% and pork for approximately 65% of total Chinese consumption, according to the National Statistics Bureau of China. China’s pork consumption is forecast to increase to 47.0 million metric tons up from 44.9 million metric tons in 2008, an increase of about 3%. Projected pork demand by 2015 is estimated to approach 68.0 million metric tons, an increase of 45%. Urbanization and the growth of the middle class (250 million people in 2008) along with PRC policies protecting the swine industry reflect the importance of hog production as a social, economic and security issue for the consumer market in China. The PRC instituted a number of laws to induce swine production. On January 1, 2008, the State Council announced a new regulation exempting companies involved in hog rearing from corporate income tax. Additionally, the Food Safety Law, which becomes effective on June 1, 2009, allows the government to take affirmative action that will strengthen food safety control “from the production line to the dining table.” The PRC Government is creating a hog futures exchange to permit hedging of contracts. This is expected to be operational in the latter half of 2009. Further, the Government has developed a "Strategic Meat Reserve" that is stocked predominantly with pork reserves and a live herd of 500,000 pigs. These policies and programs stress the value the central PRC Government places on hog production. Meat Hogs According to the Foreign Agricultural Services, the PRC is the world’s largest producer of pork and pork is the most widely-consumed meat in the PRC. The Foreign Agricultural Services determined that pork accounted for 65% of the total meat production in the PRC in 2008. A 2008 Agricultural Report published by Purdue University forecasts that China’s pork imports in 2009 may increase by nine percent to 555,000 million metric tons slightly up from 505,000 million metric tons in 2008. Strong demand and short supply are forecast to drive imports, although it appears the recent downturn in the global economic picture will curtail the Chinese import of both frozen and live swine. There are over 40 local pig breeds in China. Chinese farms are looking to import foreign breeds that may improve the genetic profile of the PRC's hog population, with the result being healthier animals and lower production costs. 9 Meat hog production in the PRC is dominated by backyard farms (those that sell 5-10 hogs annually) and small farms (those that sell less than 100 hogs annually). These farms accounted for an estimated 75% of all PRC hog production during 2008. These farms sell their products to local rural markets. The remaining 25% of the PRC's hog production comes from larger farms - those that sell between 100 and 500 head a year account for 21% of the production, those that sell between 500 and 10,000 head account for an additional 3% and those that sell between 10,000 and 50,000 hogs account for the remaining 2% of the annual production. Suppliers Feed is the most significant cost of operating a hog farm. Historically, our Hog Farms purchased feed products and raw materials such as corn and soybeans from several feed suppliers under short-term contracts. Under our ownership, the Hog Farms primarily use our premix as the base of their feed supply and enter into long-term contracts with the suppliers of feed additives in order to meet their feed requirements. The use of our premix laid the groundwork for our Hog Farms to produce hogs that are accredited as "green" pork. Research and Development We have a seven member research and development team devoted to hog farming. Two members of the team have doctorate degrees and three have masters degrees in veterinary science and/or animal breeding and genetics. We are participants in two ongoing research programs. We have been selected into the National Hog Production System, where individuals from China's top 52 hog farms share their expertise and research and development results. We are also a member of the National Pig Genetics Association which focuses on the selection of high-lean meat breeder hogs and the other program focuses on improving the reproductive traits of breeder hogs. Intellectual Property Lushan has developed advanced mating technologies that are designed for foreign and domestic breeder hogs. It employs proprietary techniques to manage mating patterns. We do not hold any patents covering these technologies and have no present intention to apply for patents on them. Government Regulation Hog breeding is subject to substantial licensing requirements and regulation. In order to sell breeder hogs in the PRC a breeder hog farm must be awarded a breeder’s license by the local government authorities. Only those breeder hog farms that have qualified staff, specialized equipment and are in segregated locations to avoid the spread of disease are eligible for licensing. Meat hog farms do not require a license. The Agricultural Department of Jiangxi Province issued a Breeder Hog Farm License to Lushan which is valid until April 1, 2010 and is renewable in three-year increments. Competition The hog production business in the PRC is highly segmented. As we discussed above, about 75% of the hogs produced in the country are produced by smaller farms, who sell their inventory to rural markets. Of the remaining 25% of hog producers, they are spread throughout the entirety of the PRC and the market for their inventory tends to be within their geographic territory. AgFeed primarily markets its products within Jiangxi, Shanghai, Hainan, Guangxi and Fujian provinces and the territory of the surrounding provinces that is close in proximity to our Hog Farms. As a result, we compete broadly with the producers in these geographic regions. However, none of our Hog Farms face competition from one or two single, significant customers. Our hog production business occupies the whole of southeastern China, including the metropolitan areas of Shanghai and Hong Kong. 10 Employees As of December 31, 2008, our hog farms had a total of 1,398 employees, 51 of whom are employed by Lushan. The breakdown of our employees by location and department is: Lushan Meat Hog Producing Farms General Management 1 90 Production Administration and Technicians 6 238 Research and Development 1 5 Farm Labor 31 747 Finance 4 86 Administration 8 181 Facilities Breeder Farm Lushan’s primary facility is a breeder hog farm located in the town of Hualin in Xingzi County, Jiangxi Province. The facility, which is situated on 258,000 square meters of developed land, is leased from the Chinese government for a period of 29 years and is scheduled to expire on April 13, 2034. Lushan’s breeder hog farm contains two separated areas, one for sows and the other for boars and gilts, with a total of 15,800 square meters of buildings. Lushan pays a nominal annual rent under the terms of the lease. Meat Hog Producing Farms Wannian Xiandai Animal Husbandry Limited Liability Co. (“Wannian”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Nanyan village in the town of Peimei in Wannian county, Jiangxi Province. Wannian subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from January 3, 2008. Jiangxi Huyun Livestock Co., Ltd. (“Huyun”), a majority owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in the town of Huyun in Wannian county, Jiangxi Province. Huyun subleases the property from the other shareholders of Huyun and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from January 3, 2008. Ganzhou Green Animal Husbandry Develop. Co., Ltd. (“Ganzhou”), a majority owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Yuliang village in the town of Hengshui in Chingyi County, Ganzhou City, Jiangxi Province. Ganzhou subleases the property from the other shareholders of Ganzhou and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from January 4, 2008. Gang Feng Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd. (“Gang Feng”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in the town of Fenglin in Dean county, Jiangxi Province. Gang Feng subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 6 and 1/2 years from January 7, 2008. 11 Yichun Tianpeng Domestic Livestock Farm, Ltd. ("Yichun"), a majority owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Nanmiao Township, Yichun City, Jiangxi Province. Yichun subleases the property from the other shareholders of Yichun and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from January 9, 2008. Zhejiang Pinghu Yongxin Hog Farm (“Zhejiang Yongxin”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Pinghu City, Zhejiang Province. Zhejiang Yongxin subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 12 years from April 18, 2008. Shanghai Fengxian Hog Farm (“Shanghai Fengxian”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Yuantong Village, Qianqiao Town, Fengxian District, Shanghai City. Shanghai Fengxian subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 14 years from May 1, 2008. Shanghai Tuanxi Hog Farm (“Shanghai Tuanxi”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Tuanxi Village, Datuan Town, Nanjiang District, Shanghai. Shanghai Tuanxi subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from May 1, 2008. Shanghai Senrong Hog Farm (“Shanghai Senrong”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Wanglong Village, Xinnong Town, Jinshan District, Shanghai. Shanghai Senrong subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from May 1, 2008. Fujian Xiamen Muxin Hog Farm (“Fujian Muxin”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Tongan District, Xiamen City, Fujian Province. Fujian Muxin subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from April 30, 2008. Xiamen Yuanshengtai Food Co., Ltd. (“Fujian Yuanshengtai”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Xiamen, Fujian Province. Fujian Yuanshengtai subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from April 30, 2008. Jiangxi Zhiliang Hog Farm (Jiangxi Zhiliang”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in Gancaoqian Village, Dayangzhou, Xingan County, Jiangxi Province. Jiangxi Zhiliang subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 22 years from April 30, 2008. Shanghai WeiSheng Hog Raising Co., Ltd.(“Shanghai Weisheng”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nanchang Best, is located in the Jinshan District, Shanghai City. Shanghai Weisheng subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 30 years from June 1, 2008. Nanping Minkang Hog Farm (“Nanping Minkang”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanghai Best, is located in the Fujian Province. Nanping Minkang subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from September 17, 2008. Guangdong Lianjiang Xinfa Hog Farm (“Guangdong Xinfa”), a majority owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Lianjiang City, Guangdong Province. Guangdong Xinfa subleases the property from the other shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from May 30, 2008. 12 Guangxi Nanning Wanghua Hog Farm (“Guangxi Wanghua”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Nanning City, Guangxi Province. Guangxi Wanghua subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from May 30, 2008. Guangxi Linxing Hog Farm (“Guangxi Linxing”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Wanghua, is located in Guangxi Province. Guangxi Linxing subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from September 20, 2008. Nanning Shunhua Hog Farm Co., Ltd. (“Nanning Shunhua”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Wanghua, is located in Guangxi Province. Nanning Shunhua subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from October 28, 2008. Nanning Shunan Hog Farm Co., Ltd.(“Nanning Shunan”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Wanghua, is located in Guangxi Province. Nanning Shunan subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 10 years from October 29, 2008. Guangxi Guigang Gangda Hog Farm (“Guangxi Gangda”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Guigang City, Guangxi Province. Guangxi Huijie acquired all of the rights to the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system in our acquisition of Guangxi Gangda. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administration Bureau of Guangxi Province through March 31, 2025 Guangxi Gangxuan Hog Farm Co., Ltd. (“Guangxi Gangxuan”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Gangda, is located in Guangxi Province. Guangxi Gangxuan subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 11 years from September 20, 2008. Guangxi Xingye Guihong Hog Farm (“Guangxi Guihong”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Kuiyang Town, Xingye County, Yulin City, Guangxi Province. Guangxi Huijie acquired all of the rights to the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system in our acquisition of Guangxi Guihong. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administration Bureau of Guangxi Province through May 30,2025. Hainan Haikou Meilan Hog Farm (“Hainan Meilan”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Xianlai Village, Dazhipo Town, Haikou City, Hainan Province. Guangxi Huijie acquired all of the rights to the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system in our acquisition of Hainan Meilan. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administration Bureau of Guangxi Province through April 12, 2033. Hainan Haikou Wohao Hog Farm (“Hainan Wohao”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Fuan Village, Shishan Town, Xiuying District, Haikou City, Hainan Province. Guangxi Huijie acquired all of the rights to the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system in our acquisition of Hainan Wohao. The right to use the land was granted by Housing Bureau and Land Administration Bureau of Guangxi Province through April 18, 2038. Guangxi Guilin Fuzhi Hog Farm (“Guangxi Fuzhi”), a majority owned subsidiary of Guangxi Huijie, is located in Sujia Village, Zhalin Town, Yanshan District, Guilin City, Guangxi Province. Guanxi Fuzhi subleases the property from the other shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 20 years from May 30, 2008. 13 Best Swine is currently being constructed on land situated in Futian Township, Wuning County, Jiangxi Province. Fujian Jianhua Hog Farm (“Fujian Jianhua”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Best Swine, is located in Xudun Town, Jian’ou City, Fujian Province. Fujian Jianhua subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from April 22, 2008. Fujian Fengxiang Agribusiness Co., Ltd. (“Fujian Fengxiang”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Best Swine, is located in Mawei District, Fuzhou City, Fujian Province. Fujian Fengxiang subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from April 30, 2008. Nanping Kangda Animal Husbandry Co., Ltd. (“Nanping Kangda”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Best Swine, is located in Yanping District, Nanping City, Fujian Province. Nanping Kangda subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from May 27, 2008. Fujian Jianxi Breeder Hog Farm Co., Ltd. (“Fujian Jianxi”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Best Swine, is located in Zhishan District, Jianou City, Fujian Province. Fujian Jianxi subleases the property from the former shareholders and includes the land, pig houses, office buildings, heating system, power and water supply system. The lease runs for 15 years from May 25, 2008. History From incorporation to October 31, 2006, the business of our company, then known as Wallace Mountain Resources Corp., consisted of 18 unit mineral claims known as the South Wallace Mountain Project having a total surface area of approximately 946 acres. At that time the property was without known reserves and the proposed program was exploratory in nature. We paid a $3,000 retainer to the geologist to commence the Phase 1 exploration work on the claim. On October 31, 2006, we entered into and closed a share purchase agreement with Nanchang Best and each of Nanchang Best’s shareholders. Pursuant to this agreement, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Nanchang Best from the Nanchang Best shareholders in exchange for 5,376,000 shares of common stock. Contemporaneously, on October 31, 2006, we entered into and closed a share purchase agreement with Shanghai Best, and each of Shanghai Best’s shareholders. Pursuant to this agreement, we acquire all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Shanghai Best from the Shanghai Best shareholders in exchange for 1,024,000 shares of common stock. Concurrently with the closing of these transactions and as a condition thereof, we entered into an agreement with Robert Gelfand, our former President and Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to which Mr. Gelfand returned 2,600,000 shares of our common stock to the treasury for cancellation. Mr. Gelfand was not compensated in any way for the cancellation of his shares of our common stock. Upon completion of the foregoing transactions, we had an aggregate of 8,000,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The shares of common stock issued to the shareholders of Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Subsequent to the acquisition of Nanchang Best and Shanghai Best, on October 31, 2006, Robert Gelfand resigned as our sole officer and Dr. Songyan Li was appointed as a director. On November 17, 2006, we declared a stock dividend of two additional shares of common stock for each share of common stock outstanding, and changed our name to AgFeed Industries, Inc. 14 On December 20, 2006, we acquired all the outstanding shares of Guangxi Huijie for a total purchase price of 8,600,000 Chinese yuan renminbi ("RMB") (approximately US$1.1 million). We obtained the funds needed to complete this acquisition by borrowing RMB8,600,000 from Sunrise Capital International, Inc. This loan accrued interest at the rate of seven percent per annum and all accrued interest and the principal amount of this loan was due and payable on June 20, 2007. We were permitted to prepay this note without penalty and did so in March 2007. Mr. Sheng Zhou, the brother of our corporate secretary and treasurer, Feng Zhou, is a director of Sunrise Capital, which is owned by his sister-in-law, Ms. Chun Mei Chang. On June 24, 2008, we completed the acquisition of premix feed company HopeJia for a negotiated purchase price of RMB28,600,000 (approximately US$4.2 million). On November 9, 2007, we acquired 90% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Lushan, a hog breeding operation. The aggregate purchase price was RMB20,112,020, equivalent to approximately US$2.7 million on the date of the transaction. In connection with this transaction, we also assumed and satisfied at closing RMB4,919,980 (approximately US$660,400) of indebtedness owed by Lushan. The acquisition of Lushan marked our entrance into the hog production business. Since November 2007, we have acquired 30 operating meat hog producing farms. In January 2008, we acquired at least a majority interest in five additional hog farms. Specifically: · we acquired 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Wannian on January 3rd for RMB12,250,000 (approximately US$1.7 million); we acquired the remaining 30% equity interest in Wannian on September 8th for RMB6,012,500 (approximately US$0.9 million); · we acquired 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Huyun on January 3rd for RMB6,482,000 (approximately US$0.9 million); · we acquired 60% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ganzhou on January 4th for RMB6,480,000 (approximately US$0.9 million); · we acquired all of the hogs and stock of Gang Feng on January 7th for RMB4,820,000 (approximately US$0.7 million); and · we acquired 55% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Yichun on January 9th for RMB8,855,000 (approximately US$1.2 million). On March 19, 2008, Best Swine was formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary of AgFeed. Best Swine was incorporated under the laws of the PRC on March 19, 2008 and is being situated in Futian Township, Wuning County, Jiangxi Province, PRC. Best Swine is being built for the business of raising, breeding and selling hogs for use in PRC’s pork production and hog breeding markets. 15 On April 30, 2008, we acquired all of the equity interest in an additional 16 hog farms. Specifically, we acquired: Name of Hog Farm Purchase Price in RMB Purchase Price in US$ (1) Guangxi Wanghua 26,030,000 $3.7 million Guangxi Gangda 14,520,000 $2.1 million Guangxi Guihong 42,500,000 $6.1 million Hainan Meilan 14,700,000 $2.1 million Hainan Wohao 15,200,000 $2.2 million Guangxi Fuzhi 12,000,000 $1.7 million Guangdong Xinfa 11,000,000 $1.6 million Zhejiang Yongxin 10,480,000 $1.5 million Shanghai Fengxian 35,000,000 $5.0 million Shanghai Tuanxi 7,000,000 $1.0 million Shanghai Senrong 30,000,000 $4.3 million Fujian Muxin 29,320,000 $4.2 million Fujian Yuanshengtai 26,200,000 $3.7 million Fujian Jianhua 32,000,000 $4.6 million Fujian Fengxiang 8,100,000 $1.2 million Jiangxi Zhiliang 8,000,000 $1.1 million (1) based on then-current conversion rate On May 28, 2008, we acquired all of the equity interest in Nanping Kangda for RMB5,821,000 (approximately US$0.9 million) and all of the equity interest in Fujian Jianxi for RMB16,338,166 (approximately US$2.4 million). On June 25, 2008, we acquired all of the equity interest in Shanghai Weisheng for RMB12,820,000 (approximately US$1.9 million). In September 2008, we acquired all of the equity interest in three additional hog farms. Specifically: · we purchased Nanping Minkang for RMB9,865,000 (approximately US$1.4 million) on September 8th; and · we purchased Nanning Shunan for RMB9,256,000 (approximately US$1.4 million) and Guangxi Gangxuan for RMB8,569,000 (approximately US$1.3 million) on September 10th. In October 2008, we acquired all of the equity interest in two more hog farms. Specifically: · on October 28th, we purchased Guangxi Linxing for RMB7,850,000 (approximately US$1.2 million); and · on October 29th, we purchased Nanning Shunhua for RMB8,260,000 (approximately US$1.2 million). As of December 31, 2008, we held at least a majority interest in 30 Hog Farms and five pre-mix feed operations. 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. General Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management and founders. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation and execution of our business strategy and result in the failure to reach our goals. We do not carry key person life insurance for any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel in the diverse areas required for continuing our operations. The rapid growth of the economy in the PRC has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. We need to successfully integrate our acquired businesses. We have made 30 acquisitions since entering the hog farm business in November 2007. Prior to that time, we had limited experience in growth through acquisition. Our future financial results depend upon our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses. We also face pressure to adequately conduct our ongoing operations while working toward the integration of these businesses. While we are pleased with the progress of our integration efforts to date, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete the integration of the acquired businesses as projected or without disrupting other areas of our business that could have a negative effect on our future financial results. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. Even when an acquisition is completed, we may have integration issues that may not produce results as positive as management may have projected. While we are taking a break from our acquisition program as we focus on integrating the companies we have acquired and increasing the efficiencies of our existing businesses, we intend to grow through additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention; · failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; · additional financing, if necessary and available, could increase leverage, dilute equity, or both; · the potential negative effect on our financial statements from the increase in goodwill and other intangibles; and · the high cost and expenses of completing acquisitions and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. 17 These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to further expand our operations through acquisitions may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital, either through cash flows generated through operations or financing activities or both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Even though we have curtailed our aggressive acquisition of established farms, we expect to face increased competition for acquisition candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify, acquire, or manage profitably additional businesses in the event that we resume our acquisition program. In future acquisitions, we also could incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may inadvertently assume unknown liabilities in acquisitions that we complete. Assumption of unknown liabilities in acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. Volatile energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically and are now volatile, which has resulted in increased and unpredictable costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for our branded feed products. Rising energy prices could adversely affect demand for our feed products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations; any adverse fluctuation may adversely affect our operating margins Almost all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi. Conducting business in currencies other than US dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency translation gains and losses. If the exchange rate of the Renminbi is affected by lowering its value as against the US dollar, our reported profitability when stated in US dollars will decrease. Historically, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities and have no current intention of doing so. Risks Related to Our Feed Business We cannot be certain that our feed product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend upon, in part, our ability to continue to improve our existing feed products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new feed products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new feed products or feed product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing feed products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new feed products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on independently owned wholesale distributors who do not exclusively offer our feed products to their customers. The loss of, or significant adverse change in, our relationship with any of our key wholesale distributors of our feed products could cause our net sales, income from operations and cash flow to decline. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. 18 We may not be able to reach our revenue and net income targets due to unpredictable market conditions. The primary end-user customers for our feed products are commercial hog farms, individual farmers and slaughterhouses. Although hog prices in the PRC reached multi-year highs last year, hog prices declined during the last six months of 2008 as China substantially increased its imports of pork products. In addition, the price for corn, an important element in feed, has been volatile. A combination of lower hog sale prices and higher feed costs could constrain demand for our feed products. We are a major purchaser of many commodities that we use for raw materials and packaging, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. We enter into contracts for the purchase of raw materials at fixed prices, which are designed to protect us against raw material price increases during their term. However, when necessary, we attempt to recover our commodity cost increases by increasing prices, promoting a higher-margin product mix and creating additional operating efficiencies. Nevertheless, the raw materials used in our feed business are largely commodities that experience price fluctuations caused by external conditions and changes in governmental agricultural programs. We also use paper products, such as corrugated cardboard, aluminum products, films and plastics to package our feed products. Substantial increases in the prices of packaging materials or higher prices of our raw materials could adversely affect our operating performance and financial results. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material and packaging costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and income. Any substantial fluctuation in the prices of raw materials, if not offset by increases in our sales prices, could adversely affect our profitability. Outbreaks of livestock disease can adversely affect sales of our products. Outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect demand for our feed products. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the sale of livestock products to or from customers, or require our customers to destroy their flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders of feed products by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on the agricultural products industry and our ability to market our products successfully. Our products and processes can expose us to product liability claims. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation and expose us to increased scrutiny by local, provincial, and central governmental regulators. The packaging, marketing and distribution of agricultural feed products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death of livestock, other animals or humans. We could be required to recall certain of our feed products in the event of contamination or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our feed products. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to perform product recalls, or that product liability claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our feed products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. 19 We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our feed products. The manufacture and sale of agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the central government and the local provincial governments. Although our licenses and regulatory filings are current, the uncertain legal environment in the PRC and within our industry may make us vulnerable to local government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of, or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us. We require various licenses and permits to operate our business, and the loss of or failure to renew any or all of those licenses and permits could require us to suspend some or all of our production or distribution operations. In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our feed business. We are required to comply with applicable hygiene and food safety standards in relation to our feed production processes. Our premises and transportation vehicles are subject to regular inspections by the regulatory authorities for compliance with applicable regulations. Failure to pass these inspections, or the loss of or failure to renew our licenses and permits, could require us to temporarily or permanently suspend some or all of our feed production or distribution operations, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in the sales of our agricultural feed products. Competition in the agricultural feed industry, especially with companies with greater resources, may make us unable to compete successfully in these industries, which could adversely affect our business. In general, the competitive factors in the agricultural feed industry in the PRC include: · price; · product quality; · brand identification; · breadth of product line; and · customer service. To the extent that our products and services do not exhibit these qualities, our ability to compete will be hindered. Concerns with the safety and quality of agricultural feed products could cause customers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if our customers and the ultimate consumers of our feed products lose confidence in the safety and quality of various feed products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, such as the recent publicity concerning the use of the substance melamine in milk and infant formula, may discourage our customers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any negative change in customer perceptions about the safety and quality of our feed products could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 20 If our feed products become adulterated or misbranded, we would need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured as a result. Animal feed products occasionally contain contaminants due to inherent defects in those products or improper storage or handling. Under adverse circumstances, animal feed manufacturers may need to recall some of their products if they become adulterated or misbranded, and may also be liable if the consumption of any of their products causes injury. While we have never been required to recall any of our feed products and we maintain insurance that we believe is adequate to cover this type of loss, a widespread product recall could result in changes to one or more of our business processes, product shortages, loss of customer confidence in our food or other adverse effects on our business. If we are required to defend against a product liability claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. We may not be able to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property, trademark, and brand names. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and market fodder and blended feed products. We currently have not applied for patents for our products or formulas, as our management believes an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Since we do not have patent protection for our technology or formulas, we may not be able to protect our rights to this intellectual property if our competitors discover or illegally obtain this technology or formulas. Our inability to protect our rights to this intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to prevent competitors from using our products and developments. Some of our significant customer and supplier contracts are short-term. Some of our feed customers and suppliers operate through purchase orders or short-term contracts. Although we have long-term business relationships with many of our feed customers and suppliers and alternative sources of supply for key items, we cannot be sure that any of these customers or suppliers will continue to do business with us on the same basis. Additionally, although we will try to renew these contracts as they expire, there can be no assurance that these customers or suppliers will renew these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The termination of or modification to any number of these contracts may adversely affect our business and prospects, including our financial performance and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Hog Farming Business Our limited operating history in hog farming makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in the hog farming business. While we are a leader in the feed product industry, the current management team does not have the same depth of experience in the hog farming business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving markets such as the market for breeding and selling hogs in the PRC. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty in the hog farming line of business; · respond to competitive market conditions; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 21 Health risks to hogs and quality concerns could adversely affect production and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our hogs are healthy. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of the hogs to finished size and require in some cases the destruction of infected hogs, all of which could adversely affect our ability sell our hogs. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or heath concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our hogs. For example, blue ear disease, or PRRS, could result in significant loss in production of hogs. The PRC lost over 10 million pigs to PRRS in 2006 and 2007. Additionally, since our hogs will be fed almost exclusively with our feed products, safety and quality concerns over our feed products will also adversely affect the sales of our hogs. We may not be able to maintain the necessary hog farming licenses. Hog breeding is subject to substantial licensing requirements and regulation. In order to sell breeder hogs in the PRC a breeder hog farm must be awarded a breeder’s license by the local government authorities. Only those breeder hog farms that have qualified staff, specialized equipment and are in segregated locations to avoid the spread of disease are eligible for licensing. Meat hog farms do not require a license. Currently, we have obtained a license to own and operate Lushan, our only breeder hog farm. We need to maintain the licenses we have and, if we pursue acquisitions of other breeder hog farms, we will need to obtain additional licenses to operate those farms. Our future success in the hog farming industry depends on our ability to acquire such licenses and permits to expand our business. Our hog farming business could be adversely affected by fluctuations in pork and commodity prices. The price at which we sell our hogs is directly affected by the supply and demand for pork products and other proteins in the PRC, all of which are determined by the constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. A downward fluctuation in the demand for pork may adversely impact our quarterly and annual results of operations for the hog farming business. Although hog prices in the PRC reached multi-year highs last year, hog prices declined during the last six months of 2008 as China substantially increased its imports of pork products. In addition, the price for corn, an important element in feed, has been volatile. Lower hog sale prices, higher feed costs, or both would have a negative effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Conducting Our Business in China We are subject to economic and political risks in China over which we have little or no control, and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. All of our business is conducted in China. Doing business outside the United States, and particularly in China, subjects us to various risks and uncertainties, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange rate controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions. Therefore, we may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. 22 China’s economic policies could affect our business. All of our assets are located in China and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of the PRC, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of the PRC has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises. However, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. If the Chinese government finds that the structure for operating our Chinese businesses do not comply with Chinese governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries in China. If we, our subsidiaries, or our corporate structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in an entity in which direct foreign ownership is restricted) the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the administration of industry and commerce, the administration of foreign exchange and relevant agencies of the Ministry of Commerce, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking business and operating licenses · confiscating income and imposing fines and other penalties · requiring us to restructure our corporate structure or operations · restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our financings to finance our business and operations in China · imposing conditions with which we or our subsidiaries may not be able to comply · forcing us to relinquish our interests in our subsidiaries The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has not adopted a Western style of management, financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may also experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records. Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various banks and trust companies located in China. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank or trust company holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank or trust company. 23 As we have limited business insurance coverage in China, any loss which we suffer may not be insured or may be insured to only a limited extent. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and insurance companies located in China offer limited business insurance products. In the event of damage or loss to our properties, our insurance may not provide as much coverage as if we were insured by insurance companies in the United States. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to substantial revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability The Chinese tax system is in a state of flux, and it is anticipated that China's tax regime will be altered in the coming years. Tax benefits that we presently enjoy may not be available in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to our government that are significantly higher than anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. We may face judicial corruption in China. Another obstacle to foreign investment in China is corruption. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China’s poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. We may face obstacles from the communist system in China. Foreign companies conducting operations in China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in China, including a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. The government of China could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of our and your investment. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past several years, the government of China has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The government of China may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretations or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, should a market for our common stock ever develop. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total loss of your investment. 24 The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes where decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. We will of necessity rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our Chinese subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on Chinese accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, they are required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if our subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Recent Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by Chinese residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our China resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) issued a public notice in October 2005, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. To further clarify the implementation of Circular 75, the SAFE issued Circular 124 and Circular 106 on November 24, 2005 and May 29, 2007, respectively. Under Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE authorities. If the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore parent company do not report to the local SAFE authorities, they may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Some of our PRC resident beneficial owners have not registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of these PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or us to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. 25 On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of our employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subject the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under PRC foreign exchange regime. These penalties may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the National Development and Reform Commission ("NDRC") promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals must be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NDRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Since our revenues are denominated in RMBs, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues to fund business activities outside of China that require foreign currencies. Recent changes in China’s currency policies may cause a target business’s ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the U.S. dollar. This meant that each unit of PRC currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping China currency low when compared to other countries gave PRC companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from outside countries, China recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value. As a result of this policy reform, we may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. 26 If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a United States holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends, if any, at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. The admission of China into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition for us. Domestic competition in the animal feed industry is largely fragmented and foreign competition is minimal. However, as a result of China becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), import restrictions on agricultural products are expected to be reduced. The lowering of import restrictions and the WTO’s requirement for a reduction of import tariffs as a condition of membership may result in an increase of foreign products, and could in turn lead to increased competition in the domestic agricultural market. Risks Related to our Securities It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. As our executive officers and several of our directors, including the chairman of our Board of Directors, are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the United States. Also, because our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for investors to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers by United States courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of United States federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, United States investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of United States securities laws. Our common stock price is subject to significant volatility, which could result in substantial losses for investors. During the eight month period ended August 28, 2007, the high and low bid prices of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) were $8.25 per share and $1.85 per share, respectively. Since our commencement of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market on August 29, 2007 through March 10, 2009, the high and low sales prices of our common stock were $21.3099 and $0.90. Prices for our shares are determined in the marketplace and may accordingly be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: · the depth and liquidity of the market for the shares; · quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · announcements about our performance as well as the announcements of our competitors about the performance of their businesses; 27 · investors’ evaluations of our future prospects and the food industry generally; · changes in earnings estimates by, or failure to meet the expectations of, securities analysts; · our dividend policy; and · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price, which may result in substantial losses. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 10, 2009, we had outstanding 38,300,436 shares of common stock. An aggregate of 3,880,004 shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes or upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and an aggregate of 180,000 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market covered under an effective registration statement, or pursuant to Rule 144, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the percentage equity interest of our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of March 10, 2009, there were approximately 32,639,560 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock which have not been reserved and accordingly, are available for future issuance. Although we have not entered into any agreements as of this date to issue our unreserved shares of common stock, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital in the private or public markets. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in this offering; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may cause us to incur substantial expenditures and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, to the extent provided by Nevada law. We may also have or may create contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. 28 Our management owns a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests could differ from those of other shareholders. Our principal executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 37.61% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of any amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws, and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Their control may delay or prevent a change of control on, terms favorable to our other shareholders and may adversely affect your voting and other shareholders rights. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so could be in our shareholders’ best interest. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be in the best interest of our shareholders. It could be difficult for a potential bidder to acquire us because our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions may limit shareholders’ ability to approve a transaction that shareholders may think is in their best interests. These provisions include a requirement that certain procedures must be followed before matters can be proposed for consideration at meetings of our shareholders. Provisions of Nevada’s business combinations statute also restrict certain business combinations with interested shareholders. We have elected not to be governed by these provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation. However, this election may not be effective unless we meet certain conditions under the Nevada statute. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. The PRC has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although our management believes that we will be in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. In addition, under current Chinese law, we must retain a reserve equal to 10 percent of net income after taxes, not to exceed 50 percent of registered capital. Accordingly, this reserve will not be available to be distributed as dividends to our shareholders. We presently do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. We have agreed with the staff of Nasdaq to seek shareholder ratification of the issuance of our securities in our December 2008 financing. By letter dated February 27, 2009 to the staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market, we agreed to seek shareholder ratification at its upcoming annual meeting of shareholders for the issuance of common stock and warrants in the Company's registered direct offering on December 31, 2008. In the letter and subsequent conversations with the staff of NASDAQ, we also agreed to not effect exercises of the warrants prior to obtaining shareholder ratification of the issuance. We plan to seek shareholder ratification at our upcoming annual meeting of shareholders, which we plan to hold on June 11, 2009, well before the date the warrants become exercisable. 29 On December 31, 2008, we issued 5,000,006 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 3,500,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $8,750,000. The sales were made under our shelf registration statement to four institutional investors. Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1)(D)(ii) requires shareholder approval for the issuance of common stock or securities exercisable for common stock equal to 20% or more of the common stock outstanding before the issuance for less than the greater of book or market value of the stock. The shares of common stock were sold at a discount to market price, but only represented approximately 15.2% of our outstanding common stock prior to the sale, well below the 20% limit of Marketplace Rule 4350(i)(1)(D)(ii). However, the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants represented approximately 10.6% of our common stock prior to the sale. While the $2.50 exercise price of the warrants was greater than the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale, it was less the book value of our shares as of September 30, 2008. Members of the Company's management having the right to vote 11,460,024 shares of the Company's common stock (representing approximately 35% of the outstanding common stock prior to the completion of the offering) have agreed to vote in favor of the ratification. The ratification will be approved if a majority of the votes cast on the ratification proposal at the annual meeting vote to approve it, not counting any votes represented by the shares of common stock issued in the offering. If our stockholders do not ratify the issuance, the securities will remain duly issued and outstanding and the warrants will remain obligations of the Company However, in the event that our stockholders do not ratify the issuance of these securities, Nasdaq may take formal action with respect to our issuance of the common stock and warrants, which could include a public reprimand of the Company and/or delisting our shares from the Nasdaq Global Market. Risk Associated with the Global Economy Deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of global economic conditions, could, among other things: · make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to finance debt in the future; · impair the financial condition of some of our customers, suppliers or counterparties to our derivative instruments, thereby increasing bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; and · negatively impact demand for pre-mix feed or hog products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 