Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. General Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management and founders. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation and execution of our business strategy and result in the failure to reach our goals. We do not carry key person life insurance for any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel in the diverse areas required for continuing our operations. The rapid growth of the economy in the PRC has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. We need to successfully integrate our acquired businesses. We have made 30 acquisitions since entering the hog farm business in November 2007. Prior to that time, we had limited experience in growth through acquisition. Our future financial results depend upon our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses. We also face pressure to adequately conduct our ongoing operations while working toward the integration of these businesses. While we are pleased with the progress of our integration efforts to date, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete the integration of the acquired businesses as projected or without disrupting other areas of our business that could have a negative effect on our future financial results. 17 Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. Even when an acquisition is completed, we may have integration issues that may not produce results as positive as management may have projected. While we are taking a break from our acquisition program as we focus on integrating the companies we have acquired and increasing the efficiencies of our existing businesses, we intend to grow through additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention; · failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; · additional financing, if necessary and available, could increase leverage, dilute equity, or both; · the potential negative effect on our financial statements from the increase in goodwill and other intangibles; and · the high cost and expenses of completing acquisitions and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. 20 These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to further expand our operations through acquisitions may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital, either through cash flows generated through operations or financing activities or both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Even though we have curtailed our aggressive acquisition of established farms, we expect to face increased competition for acquisition candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify, acquire, or manage profitably additional businesses in the event that we resume our acquisition program. In future acquisitions, we also could incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may inadvertently assume unknown liabilities in acquisitions that we complete. Assumption of unknown liabilities in acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. Our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. Our consolidated indebtedness level could adversely affect our business because: · it may limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; · our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired interest rates and increase our borrowing costs; · it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; · a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and · it may restrict our ability to pay dividends. 18 Our revolving credit facility for our U.S. hog production business contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of our business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. Our loan agreements set forth certain financial ratios and balances which must be maintained in order to maintain our lender relationship. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the carrying value of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. Goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. Under the income approach, we are required to make various judgmental assumptions about appropriate discount rates. Disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, cause us to increase the discount rate used in the goodwill valuations. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could be substantial. As of December 31, 2010, we had $22.4 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 10.0% of total assets. Domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of our products. Our facilities for processing pork, milling feed and for housing live swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. Our pork processing facilities are participants in the Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points program and are subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. In addition, our products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Also, our hog production activities are regulated by the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA), which is part of USDA’s Marketing and Regulatory Programs. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. Additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. If we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, can impair the health and growth of our hogs, interfere with our operations and distribution channels, and affect the demand of our products, as well as the cost and supply of raw materials, such as corn. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the hogs and feed that we are able to produce and sell will be affected, which will affect our sales and profitability. Such extreme factors or industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. Our business may be adversely affected by the slowdown of China’s economy. We rely on the spending of our customers and distributors for our revenues, which may in turn depend on the level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capability and willingness to spend by pork consumers in China. Specifically, China’s economy experienced a slowdown after the second quarter of 2008, when the quarterly growth rate of China’s gross domestic product reached 10.1%. In the first quarter of 2009, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product decreased to 6.2%. A number of factors have contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the Renminbi, which has adversely affected China’s exports, and tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the Chinese government aimed at preventing overheating of China’s economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown has been further exacerbated by the recent global economic downturn, which in recent months has resulted in extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital and credit markets. 19 It is uncertain how long the challenging global economic conditions in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much of an adverse impact it will have on the Chinese economy. In response to the challenging global economic conditions, in September 2008, the Chinese government began to loosen economic measures and monetary policies by reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for its banks. On November 5, 2008, the State Council of China announced an economic stimulus plan in the amount of $585 billion to stimulate economic growth and bolster domestic demand. The economic stimulus plan or various macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the Chinese government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources may not be effective in sustaining the growth of the Chinese economy. The slowdown of China’s economy could lead to lower pork consumption in China, because consumption for pork is dependent on strong general economic activities and conditions. Lower pork consumption may decrease demand for animal feed, which could decrease demand for our products and adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure of our internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Our growth and acquisition of other agribusiness companies with procedures not identical to our own could place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. Volatile energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically and are now volatile, which has resulted in increased and unpredictable costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for our branded feed products. Rising energy prices could adversely affect demand for our feed products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations; any adverse fluctuation may adversely affect our operating margins Almost all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi. Conducting business in currencies other than US dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency translation gains and losses. If the exchange rate of the Renminbi is affected by lowering its value as against the US dollar, our reported profitability when stated in US dollars will decrease. Historically, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities and have no current intention of doing so. Risks Related to Our Animal Nutrition Business We cannot be certain that our feed product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend upon, in part, our ability to continue to improve our existing feed products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new feed products. We may not be successful in introducing, marketing and producing any new feed products or feed product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing feed products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new feed products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on independently owned wholesale distributors who do not exclusively offer our feed products to their customers. The loss of, or significant adverse change in, our relationship with any of our key wholesale distributors of our feed products could cause our net sales, income from operations and cash flow to decline. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. 20 We may not be able to reach our revenue and net income targets due to unpredictable market conditions. The primary end-user customers of our feed products are commercial hog farms and individual farmers. Hog prices fluctuate greatly. We experienced hog price declines during the first six months of 2010 as a result of flooding in China which substantially decreased demand for pork products. We are currently experiencing a recent price-spike attributable to a reduced supply of hogs as a result of disease caused by such catastrophic flooding. In addition, the price for corn, an important element in feed, has been volatile. A combination of lower hog sale prices and higher feed costs could constrain demand for our feed products and impact our profitability. We are a major purchaser of many commodities that we use for raw materials and packaging, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. We enter into contracts for the purchase of raw materials at fixed prices, which are designed to protect us against raw material price increases during their term. However, when necessary, we attempt to recover our commodity cost increases by increasing prices, promoting a higher-margin product mix and creating additional operating efficiencies. Nevertheless, the raw materials used in our feed business are largely commodities that experience price fluctuations caused by external conditions and changes in governmental agricultural programs. We also use paper products, such as corrugated cardboard, aluminum products, films and plastics to package our feed products. Substantial increases in the prices of packaging materials or higher prices of our raw materials could adversely affect our operating performance and financial results. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material and packaging costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and income. Any substantial fluctuation in the prices of raw materials, if not offset by increases in our sales prices, could adversely affect our profitability. Outbreaks of livestock disease can adversely affect sales of our products. Outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect demand for our feed products. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the sale of livestock products to or from customers, or require our customers to destroy their flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders of feed products by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on the agricultural products industry and our ability to market our products successfully. Our products and processes can expose us to product liability claims. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation and expose us to increased scrutiny by local, provincial, and central governmental regulators. The packaging, marketing and distribution of agricultural feed products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death of livestock, other animals or humans. Consumption of our products may cause a health-related illness in the future, and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. We could be required to recall certain of our feed products in the event of misbranding, contamination or damage to the products or their improper storage and handling. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our feed products. We may be required to perform product recalls, and product liability claims whether or not related to such recall may be asserted against us in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our feed products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A widespread product recall of any of our feed products could result in changes to one or more of our business processes, product shortages, loss of customer confidence in our food or other adverse effects on our business. If we are required to defend against a product liability claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions that our products caused personal injury or illness could adversely affect our reputation with customers and our corporate and brand image. Unlike most food processing companies in the United States, but in line with industry practice in the PRC, we do not maintain product liability insurance. Furthermore, the products manufactured from hogs that consume our products could potentially suffer from product tampering, contamination or degeneration or be mislabeled or otherwise damaged. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products. Even if a situation does not necessitate a product recall, product liability claims may still be asserted against us. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and business reputation. 21 We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our feed products. The manufacture and sale of agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the central government and the local provincial governments. The uncertain legal environment in the PRC and within our industry may make us vulnerable to local government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of, or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us. We require various licenses and permits to operate our business, and the loss of or failure to renew any or all of those licenses and permits could require us to suspend some or all of our production or distribution operations. In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our feed business, including, without limitation, a License for Feed Production Enterprise for feed production, a License for Feed Additives Production for additive production, a License for Additive Premix Feed Production for additive premix feed production, and a Product Approval Number Certificate for Additive premix Feed for each type of additive premix feed. We are required to comply with applicable hygiene and food safety standards in relation to our feed production processes. Our premises and transportation vehicles are subject to regular inspections by the regulatory authorities for compliance with applicable regulations. Failure to pass these inspections, or the loss of or failure to renew our licenses and permits, could require us to temporarily or permanently suspend some or all of our feed production or distribution operations, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in the sales of our agricultural feed products. Competition in the agricultural feed industry, especially with companies with greater resources, may make us unable to compete successfully in these industries, which could adversely affect our business. In general, the competitive factors in the agricultural feed industry in the PRC include: · price; · product quality; · brand identification; · breadth of product line; and · customer service. To the extent that our products and services do not exhibit these qualities, our ability to compete will be hindered. Concerns with the safety and quality of agricultural feed products could cause customers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if customers of our feed products lose confidence in the safety and quality of various feed products. Consumers in the PRC are increasingly conscious of food safety and nutrition. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, such as the recent publicity concerning the use of the substance melamine in milk and infant formula, may discourage our customers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any negative change in customer perceptions about the safety and quality of our feed products could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property, trademark, and brand names. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and market formulas for premix, concentrates and complete feed products. We currently have not applied for patents for our products or formulas, as our management believes an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Since we do not have patent protection for our technology or formulas, we may not be able to protect our rights to this intellectual property if our competitors discover or illegally obtain this technology or formulas. Our inability to protect our rights to this intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to prevent competitors from using our products and developments. 22 Many of our significant customer and supplier contracts are short-term. Many of our feed customers and suppliers operate through purchase orders or short-term contracts. These customers or suppliers may not continue to do business with us on the same basis. Additionally, those customers or suppliers with long-term business arrangements with us may not renew these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The termination of or modification to any number of these contracts may adversely affect our business and prospects, including our financial performance and results of operations. Our product, trademark and brand names may be subject to counterfeiting and/or imitation, which could have an adverse impact upon our reputation and brand image, as well as lead to higher administrative costs. We regard brand positioning as one of our core competitive advantages, and intend to position our brands to create the perception and image of “health, nutrition, freshness and quality” in the minds of our customers. There have been frequent occurrences of counterfeiting and imitation of products in the PRC in the past. Counterfeiting or imitation of our products may occur in the future, and we may not be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could impact negatively upon our corporate and brand image, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause sickness, injury or death to consumers. In addition, counterfeit or imitation products could result in a reduction in our market share, a loss of revenues or an increase in our administrative expenses in respect of detection or prosecution. Risks Related to Our Commercial Hog Production Business The loss of the Company’s largest U.S. customers may have a negative impact on our profitability and financial condition. In the United States, almost all of our hogs are sold under contract to a major U.S. packer. The Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues in the U.S. will continue to be derived from this customer. The customer may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from the Company, which could adversely affect results of operations. Customers also may respond to price increases by reducing sales of the Company’s hogs. If sales of hogs to this customer is reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our limited operating history in hog production makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in the hog production business. While we are a leader in the feed product industry, the current management team does not have the same depth of experience in the hog farming business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving markets such as the market for breeding and selling hogs in the PRC. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty in the hog farming line of business; · respond to competitive market conditions; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. 23 If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Health risks to hogs and quality concerns could adversely affect production and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our hogs are healthy. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of the hogs to finished size and require in some cases the destruction of infected hogs, all of which could adversely affect our ability sell our hogs. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or heath concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our hogs. For example, blue ear disease, or PRRS, could result in significant loss in production of hogs. The PRC lost over 10 million pigs to PRRS in 2006 and 2007. Additionally, since our hogs will be fed almost exclusively with our feed products, safety and quality concerns over our feed products will also adversely affect the sales of our hogs. We may not be able to maintain the necessary hog farming licenses. Hog breeding is subject to substantial licensing requirements and regulation. In order to sell breeder hogs in the PRC a breeder hog farm must be awarded a breeder’s license by the local government authorities. Only those breeder hog farms that have qualified staff, specialized equipment and are in segregated locations to avoid the spread of disease are eligible for licensing. Meat hog farms do not require a license. Currently, we have obtained licenses to own and operate Lushan and Gangda, our breeder hog farms. We need to maintain the licenses we have and, if we pursue acquisitions of other breeder hog farms, we will need to obtain additional licenses to operate those farms. Our future success in the hog farming industry depends on our ability to acquire such licenses and permits to expand our business. Market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. Our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices. From time to time, we may hold certain positions, primarily in grain, corn and hog futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. These positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. Therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. While these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. Our hog production business could be adversely affected by fluctuations in pork and commodity prices. The price at which we sell our hogs is directly affected by the supply and demand for pork products and other proteins in the PRC, all of which are determined by the constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. A downward fluctuation in the demand for pork may adversely impact our quarterly and annual results of operations for the hog farming business. Although hog prices in the PRC reached multi-year highs last year, hog prices declined during the last six months of 2008 as China substantially increased its imports of pork products. In addition, the price for corn, an important element in feed, has been volatile. Lower hog sale prices, higher feed costs, or both would have a negative effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Conducting Our Business in China We are subject to economic and political risks in China over which we have little or no control, and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. A substantial portion of our business is conducted in China. Doing business outside the United States, and particularly in China, subjects us to various risks and uncertainties, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange rate controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions. Therefore, we may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. 24 China’s economic policies could affect our business. A substantial portion of our assets are located in China and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of the PRC, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of the PRC has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises. However, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. If the Chinese government finds that the structure for operating our Chinese businesses do not comply with Chinese governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries in China. If we, our subsidiaries, or our corporate structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in an entity in which direct foreign ownership is restricted) the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the administration of industry and commerce, the administration of foreign exchange and relevant agencies of the Ministry of Commerce, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking business and operating licenses · confiscating income and imposing fines and other penalties · requiring us to restructure our corporate structure or operations · restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our financings to finance our business and operations in China · imposing conditions with which we or our subsidiaries may not be able to comply · forcing us to relinquish our interests in our subsidiaries The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has not adopted a Western style of management, financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may also experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records. Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various banks and trust companies located in China. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank or trust company holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank or trust company. 25 As we have limited business insurance coverage in China, any loss which we suffer in China may not be insured or may be insured to only a limited extent. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and insurance companies located in China offer limited business insurance products. In the event of damage or loss to our properties in China, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage in the event of loss or damage to our property. Tax laws and regulations in China are subject to substantial revision, some of which may adversely affect our profitability The Chinese tax system is in a state of flux, and it is anticipated that China’s tax regime will be altered in the coming years. Tax benefits that we presently enjoy may not be available in the wake of these changes, and we could incur tax obligations to our government that are significantly higher than anticipated. These increased tax obligations could negatively impact our financial condition and our revenues, gross margins, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. We may face judicial corruption in China. Another obstacle to foreign investment in China is corruption. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through China’s poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. We may face obstacles from the communist system in China. Foreign companies conducting operations in China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in China, including a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. The government of China could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of our and your investment. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past several years, the government of China has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The government of China may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretations or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, should a market for our common stock ever develop. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total loss of your investment. The nature and application of many laws of China create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in China is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes where decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, China began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. 26 Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and fund our operations We are a holding company and conduct all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. We will of necessity rely on dividends paid by our direct or indirect subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. In particular, regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Each of our Chinese subsidiaries is also required to set aside at least 10% of its respective after-tax profit based on Chinese accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, each is required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profit to its staff welfare and bonus fund at the discretion of its board of directors. Moreover, if our subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Recent Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by Chinese residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our China resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies or to inject capital into our operating subsidiaries in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) issued a public notice in October 2005, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. Failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. Some of our PRC resident beneficial owners have not registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations. The failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE regulations or the failure of our beneficial owners to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely fashion pursuant to the SAFE regulations may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute capital to our PRC subsidiary, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiary to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Under the applicable PRC regulations, PRC citizens who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. On March 28, 2007, SAFE released detailed registration procedures for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans to be established by overseas listed companies and for individual plan participants. We and our PRC citizen employees who participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan will be subject to these regulations when our company becomes a publicly-listed company in the United States. Any failure to comply with the relevant registration procedures may affect the effectiveness of our employee stock ownership plans or share option plans and subject the plan participants, the companies offering the plans or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to penalties under PRC foreign exchange regime. These penalties may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the National Development and Reform Commission (“NRC”) promulgated a Rule in October 2004, or the NRC Rule, which requires NRC approvals for overseas investment projects of resource development or overseas investment projects using large amount of foreign exchange made by PRC entities. The NRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for such overseas investment projects of PRC individuals must be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NRC or challenged by the NRC based on the absence of NRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NRC approval for investment in us. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiaries to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. 27 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive a significant portion of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income from Chinese operations is primarily derived from dividend payments from our sole subsidiary. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our subsidiary to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy any foreign currency denominated obligations that they may subsequently incur. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Since our revenues are denominated in RMBs, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues to fund business activities outside of China that require foreign currencies. Changes in China’s currency policies may cause a target business’s ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the U.S. dollar. This meant that each unit of PRC currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping China currency low when compared to other countries gave PRC companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from outside countries, China recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value. As a result of this policy reform, we may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a United States holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends, if any, at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our common stock and the market price of our common stock may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. 28 Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock price is subject to significant volatility, which could result in substantial losses for investors. Since January 1, 2009 through March 14, 2011, the high and low sales prices of our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market were $7.96 and $0.90. Prices for our shares are determined in the marketplace and may accordingly be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: · the depth and liquidity of the market for the shares; · quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · announcements about our performance as well as the announcements of our competitors about the performance of their businesses; · investors’ evaluations of our future prospects and the food industry generally; · changes in earnings estimates by, or failure to meet the expectations of, securities analysts; · our dividend policy; and · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price, which may result in substantial losses. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our shareholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 15, 2011, we had 55,777,843 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, 1,800,000 of which shares are subject to the lapsing of certain restrictions. An aggregate of 2,404,435 shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes or upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and an aggregate of 185,000 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market covered under an effective registration statement, or pursuant to Rule 144, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. Several of our former directors and executive officers have pledged their shares of our stock as collateral under bank loans, which could result in foreclosure and disposition and could have a negative impact on our stock price. Based on information from these stockholders, we believe Dr. Songyan Li, our former chairman of our board of directors, Feng Zhou, our former corporate secretary, Zhengru Xiong, Yunlin Zheng and JunQing Xiong have pledged 6,000,000 shares of our common stock that they own to secure loans made to them by an unrelated third party lender. If one of these shareholders defaults on any of their respective obligations under these pledge agreements or the related loan documents, the lender may have the right to sell the pledged shares in one or more sales that could cause our stock price to decline. Many of the occurrences that could result in a foreclosure of the pledged shares are out of our control and are unrelated to our operations. Some of the occurrences that may constitute such an event of default include: · the shareholder’s failure to make a payment of principal or interest when due; · the occurrence of another default that would entitle any of the shareholder’s other creditors to accelerate payment of any debts and obligations owed to them by the stockholder in an amount in excess of $1 million; and · if, in the sole opinion of the lender, the cost or other issues surrounding the rolling-over or re-issuance of hedges related to the pledged shares too difficult or expensive, or there is no option trading in our shares. If the lender forecloses on the pledged shares and decides to sell such shares in large blocks, any such sales would likely have a material adverse affect on our stock price. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the percentage equity interest of our shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of March 15, 2011, there were approximately 16,632,722 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock which have not been reserved and accordingly, are available for future issuance. We entered into an Equity Credit Agreement in September 2009 with an institutional investor pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to require the investor to purchase shares of our common stock from time to time. The maximum aggregate value of the shares that may be issued under the Equity Credit Agreement is $28.5 million. Based on the closing price of our common stock on March 11, 2011, assuming the maximum takedown under the Equity Credit Agreement, approximately 13.7 million additional shares could be issued. We are not obligated to issue any shares. Although we have not entered into any other agreements as of this date to issue our unreserved shares of common stock, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital in the private or public markets. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock: 29 · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in this offering; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may cause us to incur substantial expenditures and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, to the extent provided by Nevada law. We may also have or may create contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. As some of our executive officers and our directors are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the United States. Also, because a substantial portion of our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in China, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for investors to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers by United States courts. In addition, the courts in China may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of United States federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, United States investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of United States securities laws. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so could be in our shareholders’ best interest. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be in the best interest of our shareholders. It could be difficult for a potential bidder to acquire us because our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions may limit shareholders’ ability to approve a transaction that shareholders may think is in their best interests. These provisions include a requirement that certain procedures must be followed before matters can be proposed for consideration at meetings of our shareholders. Provisions of Nevada’s business combinations statute also restrict certain business combinations with interested shareholders. We have elected not to be governed by these provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation. However, this election may not be effective unless we meet certain conditions under the Nevada statute. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. The PRC has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although our management believes that we will be in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of China. In addition, under current Chinese law, we must retain a reserve equal to 10 percent of net income after taxes, not to exceed 50 percent of registered capital. Accordingly, this reserve will not be available to be distributed as dividends to our shareholders. We presently do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. 30 Risk Associated with the Global Economy Deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of global economic conditions, could, among other things: · make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to finance debt in the future; · impair the financial condition of some of our customers, suppliers or counterparties to our derivative instruments, thereby increasing bad debts or non-performance by suppliers; and · negatively impact demand for pre-mix feed or hog products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has outstanding unresolved comments from the SEC from a letter it received during the first quarter of 2011 relating to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009 and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010. The Company is currently in the process of preparing its response to the unresolved comments. 