ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, you should also consider the following risk factors in evaluating our prospects. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. Although we have entered into an agreement to acquire Elmet, we cannot assure you that we will be able to close the acquisition or, in the event we do not complete such acquisition, that we will find and close a suitable alternative business combination in the time permitted by our certificate of incorporation. 5 We have a limited operating history and may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have not commenced any operations, but have entered into an agreement to acquire Elmet. This acquisition would fulfill the conditions of a business combination required to release the funds held in the trust account to us. If this acquisition is not completed, we intend to immediately resume the search for another suitable business combination; however, there is no assurance that such a suitable business combination would be identified and consummated within the requisite time periods. If we do not consummate such an acquisition within the requisite time periods, we would be required to distribute the funds held in the trust account to the holders of our common stock issued in our initial public offering (our “public stockholders”). We believe that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to cover operating costs and expenses until the acquisition of Elmet is consummated. However, if we do not consummate the acquisition of Elmet, we would be required to obtain additional financing to continue our search for another suitable business combination and continue as a going concern. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our public offering contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our public stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our public offering that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: · prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders, and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares purchased by the public stockholders in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; · if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; · if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in our certificate of incorporation, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and · we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this report, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. 6 Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, which could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Although our executive officers expect to devote substantial time to our business, they are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers’ or directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value as determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors of at least 80% of our net assets, not including the underwriters’ deferred non-accountable expense allowance, at the time of acquisition within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of the offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of the offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. We may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the U. S. securities laws. However, because we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Accordingly, stockholders will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, our units became immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. Our board of directors may not accurately determine the fair market value of a targeted acquisition. Fair market value of the target company will be determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may, but will not be required to, obtain an opinion from an investment 7 banking firm or other valuation expert to confirm its determination of fair market value. If our board of directors, or any investment banking firm or other expert upon whose opinion our board may rely, overestimates the fair market value of a company that we acquire, then the value of our securities could be adversely affected. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders would be less than $5.76 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that even if such third parties execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust fund. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. If we engage any vendor that refuses to execute such a waiver, or if a claim were nonetheless initiated by a party that executed a waiver, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per share liquidation price could be less than $5.76, plus interest, due to claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, John Carson, our Chairman of the Board, Robert J. Hanks, our Chief Executive Officer, and David A.R. Dullum, our President, have agreed to indemnify us against any claims by any vendor, prospective target business or other entities that are owed money from us for services rendered or products sold to us that would reduce the amount of the funds in the trust. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Carson, Hanks and Dullum will be able to satisfy those obligations in all instances. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are 21,800,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Under the stock purchase agreement, we have agreed to issue up to 2,191,000 shares of our common stock to Elmet stockholders, and may be obligated in the future to issue additional shares worth up to $11.2 million at the time of issuance, as a contingent payment to the Elmet stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has authorized, subject to stockholder approval and the consummation of the Elmet acquisition, an incentive compensation plan under which we would reserve 1,000,000 shares of our common stock for future issuance to employees, directors and consultants. We have no other commitments to issue our securities. However, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, a combination of 8 common and preferred stock, or debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our public offering; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if the preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · could likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We intend to secure bank financing in connection with the Elmet acquisition and we may issue other debt securities to effect a business combination, which could subject us to risks associated with debtors. We may issue debt securities in connection with a business combination. We intend to secure bank financing in connection with the Elmet acquisition. Such bank financing or the issuance of other debt securities could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to service our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if a business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or the business combination may be more highly leveraged than desirable. As a result, we may not be able to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 9 Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of any target business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, they are not currently obligated to do so. We anticipate that members of our current management will not serve as executive officers following a business combination but may continue to serve as directors or consultants, which may result in a conflict of interest. We will attempt to retain the management of the target business or we will recruit new management team members to join the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. Some of our officers and directors are currently, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors are currently affiliated with private equity firms that seek to invest in or acquire middle market companies. In addition, although none of our officers or directors are currently affiliated with other publicly traded blank check companies, they may in the future become so affiliated. Furthermore, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own stock in our company, but do not have a right with respect to those shares of common stock acquired by them prior to our initial public offering to receive distributions upon our liquidation. In addition, certain of our initial stockholders have purchased 2,000,000 warrants in the private placement for an aggregate purchase price of $1,300,000. The shares of common stock acquired by our officers and directors prior to our initial public offering, as well as any warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination within the required time frame. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 10 It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value (as determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors) of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition (not including the underwriters’ deferred non-accountable expense allowance). Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. None of our officers or directors have ever been a principal of, or have ever been affiliated with, a publicly traded company formed with a business purpose similar to ours. Our officers and directors have never served as officers or directors of a development stage public company with the business purpose of raising funds to acquire an operating business. Accordingly, you may not be able to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate a business combination for a publicly traded company organized for such a purpose. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and financial buyers competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. 11 We may have to use a portion of the funds not held in trust to pay a “no-shop” fee to an acquisition target. We may use a portion of the funds not held in the trust account to make a deposit or pay a “no-shop” fee provision with respect to a prospective business combination. Depending on the size of such payment and the amount of funds already expended for due diligence and related expenses, our forfeiture of such payments, whether as a result of our breach or otherwise, may result in our not having sufficient funds to continue searching for or conducting due diligence with respect to another target business or complete a business combination. If we expend the proceeds not held in trust from our initial public offering, management is not obligated to advance us any additional funds. Without additional financing after such an event, we may be unable to complete a business combination. Furthermore, the limited amount of funds raised in our initial public offering and not held in trust may limit our ability to fund a deposit or no-shop fee, which could make us less competitive in attracting an acquisition target. If additional financing is required, we may be unable to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders are required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. The American Stock Exchange may in the future delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We cannot assure that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and could possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 12 In the event that our securities are not listed on the American Stock Exchange, we anticipate that our units, common stock and warrants will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, but we cannot assure that our securities will be so quoted, or, if quoted, will continue to be quoted. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 17.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before our initial public offering, as well as any shares of common stock acquired following the offering, in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. However, our initial stockholders will have substantial influence over other matters that may be voted upon by the stockholders, such as the election of directors. Target business may be affiliated with one or more of our initial stockholders. We may complete a business combination with a target company with which one or more of the initial stockholders is affiliated or has been affiliated, which may give rise to a conflict of interest. For example, each of Mr. Hanks and Mr. Dullum are managers of venture capital firms that have invested in middle market companies across the United States. We may complete a business combination with a target company in which such venture capital firms has invested, which may give rise to a conflict of interest because Mr. Hanks and Mr. Dullum would be affiliated with an investor in such a target company. In the event we propose to acquire a target company that is affiliated with one of our initial stockholders, we will obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the business combination is fair from a financial point of view and will file such opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Elmet As a result of the acquisition, our stockholders will be solely dependent on a single business. As a result of the acquisition, our stockholders will be solely dependent upon the performance of Elmet and its business. Elmet will remain subject to a number of risks that relate primarily to the specialty materials industry in which Elmet is engaged. See “Risks Related to Elmet’s Business and Operations Following the Acquisition” below. In connection with the acquisition, we anticipate borrowing $50 million under senior secured credit facilities to be established upon the closing. That borrowing and subsequent borrowings under those facilities will require us to pay significant interest in the future, and the credit agreement for such facilities will impose restrictions on our and Elmet’s future operations. Upon the closing of the acquisition, we anticipate that we and Elmet will enter into a credit agreement pursuant to which we will establish $70 million of senior secured credit facilities, consisting of a six-year $50 million term loan facility and a five-year $20 million revolving loan facility. The commitment letter for such facilities provides that we will borrow all of the $50 million term loan at the closing of the acquisition. Depending on the extent, if any, to which our public stockholders vote against the acquisition and exercise their conversion rights, we anticipate that we will use between $35 million and $50 million of the $50 million term loan to pay off all of Elmet’s then outstanding debt and pay the closing consideration we will then owe to the Elmet stockholders. Although we do not currently anticipate borrowing any funds under our $20 million revolving loan facility at the time of the closing, we now anticipate we will borrow under such facility in the future for capital expenditures and working capital purposes. 13 To the extent we borrow funds under our new senior credit facilities either at or subsequent to the closing, we will thereafter be required to pay significant interest on such borrowings. Borrowings under our new credit facilities will bear interest at LIBOR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.5% to 2.5% per annum, depending upon the leverage ratio of our total debt to EBITDA as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement. Assuming that the average interest rate on the $50 million term loan we will borrow at the closing (and will amortize on a quarterly basis to $45 million over the first year following the closing) is 8% per annum, we estimate that we will pay approximately $2.6 million of interest on our borrowings during the first year following the closing. Furthermore, the credit agreement under which the facilities will be established will restrict our and Elmet’s ability to sell assets, incur more indebtedness, pay dividends on our common stock, make certain investments or business acquisitions, repurchase or redeem our stock, engage in business mergers or consolidations, and engage in certain transactions with affiliated parties. The credit agreement will also contain financial covenants with which we and Elmet must comply in order to avoid a default under the agreement. If we were to default under the agreement, the administrative agent for the lenders could proceed against the collateral thereunder, which will include substantially all of our and Elmet’s assets. We anticipate that the credit agreement will expire upon the fifth anniversary of the closing (for purposes of the revolving loan facility) and the sixth anniversary of the closing (for purposes of the term loan facility), but that any new or amended credit agreement which we may then enter into with the same or different lenders will likely contain similar restrictions. To the extent, if any, that our public stockholders vote against the acquisition and exercise their conversion rights, we will be required to use an increased portion of the borrowing under our senior credit facilities to pay the closing consideration for Elmet. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our public stockholders will have the right to vote against the acquisition and, if the acquisition is completed, convert their shares of common stock into a pro rata share of the cash held in the trust account we established upon the completion of our public offering. We will proceed with the acquisition only if public stockholders owning 20% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering (2,760,000 or more of such shares) do not vote against the acquisition and exercise their conversion rights. However, to the extent, if any, our public stockholders vote against the acquisition and exercise their conversion rights, we will be able to proceed with the acquisition but will be unable to apply up to approximately $15.6 million of the funds held in the trust account to the cash consideration and expenses we will pay upon the closing. In such event, we will be required to use an increased portion of the $50 million term loan borrowed under our senior secured credit facilities for such purpose, and this will reduce the aggregate amount of the proceeds from such term loan and the funds available under our $20 million revolving facility which we will be able to use for other purposes such as future capital expenditures and working capital. If the acquisition’s benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition if: · we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts; or · the effect of the acquisition on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price. 14 Our directors may have conflicts in determining to recommend the acquisition of Elmet since certain of their interests, and certain interests of their affiliates and associates, are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder. Members of our board of directors have interests in and arising from the acquisition of Elmet that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder which could result in real or perceived conflicts of interest. These interests include: · Robert J. Hanks, our chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors, served as a member of the Elmet board of directors from January 2004 to September 2006, and three investment funds (New England Partners Capital, L.P., Harbor Partners II, L.P., and Latona Associates Fund I, LLC) with which certain of our directors and officers are affiliated are the holders of approximately 7.4% of Elmet’s issued and outstanding shares (8.3% on a fully-diluted basis including the outstanding Elmet warrants). If the acquisition is completed, those three funds will receive at the time of the closing a total of $7.26 million dollars (including repayment of $912,500 principal amount of Elmet’s subordinated notes they now hold and $6.35 million for the shares of Elmet common stock and warrants they now hold), and Harbor will issue to those three funds (or reserve for future issuance upon exercise of their “Put Right”) a total of 113,433 shares of Harbor common stock. To the extent (if any) that Harbor becomes obligated to pay in the future to the Elmet stockholders the contingent payment under the stock purchase agreement, those three funds could potentially receive up to an additional $1.38 million in cash and additional Harbor shares worth up to $922,022 at the time those additional shares are issued. · The Harbor directors and officers who are affiliated with those three investment funds described in the previous paragraph now collectively have approximately a 1% indirect interest in the cash payments and Harbor shares which those funds will receive. However, those Harbor directors and officers could in the future collectively receive up to an approximately 13% indirect “profits” interest in such cash payments and Harbor shares if certain performance criteria set forth in the organizational documents of those funds are satisfied. · The Elmet subordinated notes and shares of Elmet common stock and warrants which the three investment funds described above now hold were derived from an investment of $3 million which those funds made (along with aggregate investments of $10.5 million by other institutional investors) to provide a portion of the financing for the buyout by Elmet of the Elmet division of Philips Lighting Company effective as of January 1, 2004, at which time Mr. Hanks became an Elmet director. As a result of a recapitalization which Elmet completed on September 1, 2005, those three funds then received a total of $5 million in cash (out of the total of $24.6 million which Elmet’s investors then received), retained $912,500 principal amount of the Elmet subordinated notes and warrants for 167,900 shares of Elmet common stock, and converted all of their remaining 1.175 million shares of preferred stock into an equivalent number of shares of Elmet common stock. The three investment funds did not make any additional investments in Elmet following their initial investment in Elmet in 2004. · If the acquisition is not approved and we fail to consummate an alternative transaction within the time permitted under our certificate of incorporation and we are therefore required to liquidate, the shares of common stock beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors and their affiliates and associates that were acquired prior to our initial public offering will become worthless because no portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to be distributed upon our liquidation would be allocated to such shares. These shares collectively have a market value of $16.5 million based on the closing sale price of our common stock on March 26, 2007. However, the 3 million shares acquired prior to our initial public offering by these individuals cannot be sold until at least six months after our consummation of a business combination, during which time the value 15 of the shares may increase or decrease. Similarly, the warrants to purchase our common stock held by our executive officers and directors and their affiliates and associates, with an aggregate market value of $640,000 based on the closing sale price of our warrants on March 26, 2007 (and which, if then exercisable, would have permitted them to purchase an aggregate of 2 million common shares then having a market value of $11 million for an exercise price of $10 million), will become worthless if the acquisition is not approved and we fail to consummate an alternative transaction within the time permitted under our certificate of incorporation. · After the completion of the acquisition, we expect that four of our current directors, namely John Carson, David A.R. Dullum, Robert J. Hanks and William E. Mahoney, will continue to serve on our board of directors. Each of these directors will, following the acquisition, be compensated in such manner, and in such amounts, as our board of directors may determine to be appropriate. We plan to issue shares of our common stock to complete the acquisition of Elmet, which will dilute the equity interest of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as previously amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 70 million shares of common stock and 1 million shares of preferred stock. We currently have 16.8 million outstanding shares of common stock and 31.4 million authorized but unissued shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and an option to acquire additional warrants. The remaining 21.8 million shares of our authorized common stock and all of the 1 million authorized shares of preferred stock are now available for issuance. As set forth in the stock purchase agreement, we will at the closing of the acquisition issue (or reserve for issuance upon future exercise by certain of the Elmet stockholders of their “Put Right”) a total of 2.191 million shares of our common stock. Furthermore, we may issue following the closing, pursuant to the contingent payment provisions of the stock purchase agreement, additional shares of our common stock valued at up to $11.2 million, based on the average closing price of our common stock during the 20 consecutive trading day period ending on the day preceding each date on which an installment of the contingent payment will be payable, if earned. The issuance of such shares at the closing and thereafter, if there are any shares issued pursuant to the contingent payment provisions, will dilute the equity interest of our stockholders on a pro rata basis. If our initial stockholders and certain Elmet stockholders exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand, under certain circumstances, that we register the resale of their 3 million shares of common stock and the 2 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants they now hold so that they may resell such shares in the public market. In addition, we have agreed to register, under certain circumstances, 600,000 shares of common stock and an additional 1.2 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants which are now subject to a purchase option held by Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated, the managing underwriter for our initial public offering. If our initial stockholders and Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including the warrant shares), those additional 6.8 million shares of common stock will be eligible for trading in the public market. If we complete the acquisition of Elmet, we will at the closing enter into a registration rights and lock-up agreement with the Elmet stockholders who each own at least 1% of Elmet’s outstanding shares immediately prior to the closing. Under that agreement, we will grant registration rights to those stockholders with respect to the 2.191 million Harbor shares which we will then issue or reserve for future issuance to them, plus any such additional shares as we may issue to them in the future pursuant to the contingent payment provisions of the stock purchase agreement. 16 As described in the previous paragraph, there are a total of 8.991 million shares (which include 3 million primary shares that are now outstanding and 5.991 million shares that may be issued in the future) that are or will, upon the closing of Elmet acquisition, be subject to registration rights which are now held by or are issuable to our initial stockholders, Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated and the Elmet stockholders. These 8.991 million shares (including the 3 million shares that are now outstanding and the 5.991 million shares which may be issued in the future) represent 53.5% of the 16.8 million primary shares of common stock which we had outstanding on the record date for the special meeting. The presence of these additional numbers of outstanding or issuable shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Elmet’s Business and Operations Following the Acquisition Elmet’s operations are dependent on production levels at its Lewiston facility and any disruption of production at this facility could lead to decreased sales, increased costs and lost opportunities. Elmet’s principal assets, which include its executive offices and various types of coiling and drawing machines, furnaces, milling centers and grinding machines, are located at its production facility in Lewiston, Maine, and all of its products are manufactured at this facility. Any serious disruption to this facility resulting from fire, acts of terrorism, weather-related events or any other cause could materially impair Elmet’s ability to manufacture and distribute its products. In such event, Elmet could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with manufacturing and distributing its products during the time that it would take to reopen or replace the damaged facility. Although Elmet maintains insurance to provide for reconstruction of damaged plant and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any prolonged production shutdown caused by an insured loss, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all such losses. In addition, Elmet has certain equipment that it builds and maintains for the production of custom products designed by its customers. This type of equipment is not generally available from third-party equipment suppliers and may take longer to replace in the event of damage or destruction. Elmet’s profitability could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or disruptions in the availability of raw materials. The primary raw materials used in the manufacturing of the metal rod, plate and sheet that Elmet uses as the base for the advanced enabling materials that it produces for its customers are ammonia paratungstate, or APT, and molybdenum trioxide powder. The prices for these raw materials have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant future increases could adversely affect Elmet’s results of operations and profit margins. While Elmet generally attempts to pass along increases in the prices of these raw materials to its customers, there may be a time delay between any increases in such prices and Elmet’s ability to increase the prices of its products. In addition, Elmet generally passes along decreases in the prices of its raw materials to its customers, which could result in a decrease in its profitability and profit margins. Elmet relies primarily on two sole source suppliers for its raw materials. In the event that either of its suppliers ceases to supply sufficient quantities of these raw materials in a timely manner, Elmet would be forced to locate an alternate supplier. Elmet may be unable to locate suitable alternate suppliers, particularly because Elmet relies on the quality of the raw materials supplied by its current suppliers. In addition, in order for Elmet to successfully expand its existing business, its two sole source suppliers must be able to provide it with substantial quantities of the raw materials necessary for its manufacturing process, consistent with the high quality that such suppliers currently provide, at an acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Elmet’s anticipated growth may strain the ability of its suppliers to deliver an increasingly larger supply of raw materials in sufficient quantities. If Elmet is unable to obtain sufficient quantities of 17 the raw materials required for manufacturing high-quality products to meet customer demand, Elmet could lose customers, its growth may be limited and its business could be harmed. Elmet anticipates the need for increased capital expenditures in order to upgrade its facility and grow its business. Although Elmet believes that its Lewiston facility is generally in good operating condition, Elmet anticipates making significant upgrades to its equipment and technology. Elmet anticipates investing approximately $14 million in the aggregate during 2007, 2008 and 2009 on these upgrades and believes such capital expenditures are needed to maintain and improve Elmet’s ability to manufacture its products and grow its business. We now anticipate that we and Elmet will be able to finance such capital expenditures through future reinvestment of cash flow derived from Elmet’s business and borrowings under our proposed senior secured credit facilities which will become effective on the closing of the acquisition. However, the making of such future capital expenditures funded by borrowing will increase our future interest costs and require us to use funds which might otherwise be available for other purposes such as potential acquisition of other companies. The development of new applications and new products is important for Elmet’s business. We believe Elmet’s manufacturing expertise provides it with a competitive advantage over other refractory metals manufacturers in the industry. However, Elmet’s ability to maintain this competitive advantage depends on its ability to continue to offer custom-designed refractory metals products that meet its customers’ specifications that have equal or better performance characteristics than those types of products that its competitors may offer. Elmet’s future growth will depend, in part, on its ability to address the increasingly demanding needs of its customers by enhancing the properties of its existing products, by timely developing new applications for its products, and by timely developing and introducing new products that its customers require for use in their end products. Elmet may not be successful in these efforts or it may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these products. In addition, Elmet’s new products may not adequately meet the requirements and specifications of its customers. If Elmet is not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of its existing or new projects, if new applications for Elmet’s products develop more slowly than currently projected, or if Elmet incurs unanticipated implementation costs, Elmet’s results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. Elmet’s financial results and the demand for its products are dependent upon its ability to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives in a timely manner. Elmet’s success depends on the development of new technological processes and the successful manufacturing of new products. Elmet’s ability to transform refractory metals into high quality custom-designed components for use by its customers in the production of a variety of end products, including medical devices, such as CT scanners and radiation therapy equipment, and flat panel displays, is dependent upon its manufacturing and technological processes. Elmet has invested in, and plans to further invest in, a number of new technology and process initiatives, including the full automation of the future production of its medical device components. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if Elmet is successful with these initiatives, it may not be able to effectively deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from Elmet’s initiatives and investments in new technologies, and the resulting effects on its financial results, may vary from present expectations. 18 Failure to develop new products could have an adverse effect on Elmet’s business prospects. Although Elmet has been diversifying its products and sales outside of the lighting business since the management buyout effective January 1, 2004, a substantial portion of Elmet’s current revenues are derived from selling lighting components and filaments to Philips Lighting, which owned Elmet’s assets and business through the end of 2003. Sales to Philips Lighting accounted for approximately 21% of Elmet’s net sales during the year ended December 31, 2006. Elmet’s future business and financial success will depend, in part, on its ability to continue to supply these components to Philips while at the same time introducing new products and upgraded products to new customers in the metals marketplace. Developing new products that utilize the refractory metals that Elmet specializes in and upgrades to such existing and future products imposes burdens on Elmet’s research and development department and its management. This process is costly, and Elmet may not be able to successfully develop such new products or enhance its existing products. In addition, as Elmet develops these products and seeks to enhance existing products in order to diversify its customer base, its competitors may also develop similar products earlier than Elmet, which could make its competitors’ products less expensive or more effective than Elmet’s products and could render Elmet’s products in development obsolete or unmarketable. If Elmet’s product and new customer development efforts are unsuccessful, Elmet will have incurred significant costs without recognizing the expected benefits, its revenues may be impacted, its operating results may decline and its business prospects may suffer. Failure to deploy Elmet’s skills with tungsten and molybdenum to other refractory metals would limit the potential products that Elmet may manufacture in the future and adversely impact Elmet’s business prospects and revenue. One of Elmet’s strategies for growth is to apply the skills, experience and technology that it has developed in manufacturing specified product applications with tungsten and molybdenum to other refractory metals. Elmet intends to explore the development and potential uses of new products that utilize other refractory metals. However, this strategy may not be successful, and Elmet may incur significant costs attempting to expand its lines of products using other refractory metals without recognizing any significant benefits. If Elmet fails to deploy its skills with tungsten and molybdenum to other refractory metals, such failure would limit the potential products that Elmet may manufacture in the future and adversely impact Elmet’s business prospects and revenue. Elmet relies on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its sales, and the loss of any of those customers would adversely affect its revenues and results of operations. Elmet’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 53.5% of its net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. Consequently, Elmet’s sales may be sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with, one or more of its top customers. In addition, given the relatively small number of Elmet’s customers that account for such a large percentage of net sales, these customers may also be able to exert pricing and other influence on Elmet, requiring it to market, deliver and promote its products in a manner that may be more costly. Elmet is actively pursuing a broader customer base, but in the event that it fails to succeed, a loss or significant decrease in business from any of its top customers could have a material adverse effect on its business and reduce its sales, profitability and cash flows. Except for its business with Philips, Elmet generally does not have long-term contracts with its customers, which Elmet believes is typical in the specialty materials industry. As a result, although Elmet’s customers periodically provide indications of their product needs and purchases, they generally purchase products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, may be terminated at any time. In particular, Philips Lighting, Elmet’s largest customer, accounted for approximately 20% of Elmet’s net sales during the year ended December 31, 2006. Elmet currently sells more than 90% of its filaments to 19 Philips, which accounted for $11.4 million in sales for the same period. The loss of, or significant reduction in, the purchase of filaments by Philips Lighting could adversely effect Elmet’s business. Elmet’s business may be subject to significant environmental investigation, remediation and compliance costs. Elmet’s business and facilities are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water as well as the use, generation, handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous wastes and materials. Permits are required for operation of Elmet’s business (particularly air emission and wastewater discharge permits), and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain circumstances, revocation. Environmental laws and regulations may also impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated. A property owner or operator of a business that violates environmental laws or regulations may be subject to sanctions which may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, private parties. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of environmental penalties or of remediating contaminated property, could materially adversely affect Elmet’s business, assets or results of operations. Elmet owns, and operates its business primarily in, its facility in Lewiston, Maine. Elmet and its predecessors have conducted industrial activities for many years in the facility, and Elmet and its precedessors have also arranged for many years for disposal of hazardous materials at various off-site disposal sites owned by third parties. Elmet may incur costs for investigation and remediation, as well as capital costs, associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations which are applicable both to its own facility and such third party sites. More stringent environmental laws and regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies or discovery of previously unknown conditions requiring remediation, could impose material costs and liabilities on Elmet that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, there are risks that: · Elmet may be liable to investigate and remediate historic contamination at its facility in Lewiston, Maine; · cleanup standards for containments present in soil and groundwater at the Lewiston facility may become more stringent; · Elmet may be liable to other property owners to the extent that groundwater contamination from Elmet’s Lewiston facility may migrate off Elmet’s property; · remediation of historic subsurface contamination beneath the Lewiston facility may be required and such remediation may be disruptive of facility operations; · changes in environmental laws and regulations applicable to the Lewiston facility may require new controls on air and wastewater discharges from the facility; and · there may be future noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations, exposing Elmet to potential fines and penalties. In connection with Elmet’s purchase of the Lewiston facility effective January 1, 2004, Philips, as the prior owner, agreed to assume responsibility for the investigation and remediation of identified historical releases on or from the facility existing as of the purchase date. However: · Philips’ environmental investigations may not identify all historical environmental contamination; · Philips may not completely fulfill its agreement and responsibilities to investigate and remediate historic contamination and to indemnify Elmet for related costs, and disputes and potential litigation might arise between Elmet and Philips; and 20 · Elmet’s operations of the facility since January 1, 2004 (for which Philips has no responsibility) and changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of environmental liability with respect to the facility. Elmet’s business is dependent upon key personnel whose loss would adversely impact its business. Elmet depends on the expertise, experience and continued services of its senior management, especially John S. Jensen, its president and chief executive officer. Mr. Jensen has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Elmet’s business and its operations and most decisions concerning the business will be made or significantly influenced by him. Although Elmet maintains keyman life insurance with respect to Mr. Jensen, the proceeds of such insurance may not be adequate to compensate Elmet in the event of Mr. Jensen’s death or disability. The loss of Mr. Jensen or other members of senior management, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect Elmet’s business. Elmet seeks to compensate and incentivize its senior management, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and benefits, but these programs may not be adequate to allow Elmet to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Mr. Jensen or other members of Elmet’s senior management were to leave Elmet, Elmet could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successors obtain the necessary training and experience. Potential product liability may arise from the products that Elmet manufactures and sells. Elmet’s business exposes it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its metals products and the use of these products as components in the products of end users that are also subject to potential product liability risks. While Elmet currently maintains what its management believes to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, Elmet may not be able to maintain its insurance on acceptable terms and its insurance may not provide adequate protection against all potential liabilities. In the event of any significant products liability claim against Elmet, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Most of Elmet’s employees are unionized, and disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect its financial results. Elmet currently has approximately 235 full-time employees, of whom approximately 90% are members of The International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 340 and are subject to a collective bargaining agreement with Elmet that was recently renegotiated and is now scheduled to expire on April 14, 2013. Although Elmet believes that it has a good working relationship with its employees, Elmet might not be able to renew its collective bargaining agreement on the same or similar terms, or at all, which could affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, any new labor agreement which is negotiated may provide for less favorable terms than the current agreement with regard to wages and benefits and the efficiency and productivity of the work force. Furthermore, Elmet might be subject to work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and cash flows. Elmet faces competition from two large existing companies and may face increasing competition from other companies. The market for the types of advanced enabling materials consisting of refractory metals that Elmet manufactures is competitive worldwide. Elmet faces competition from two large European competitors that each hold a major share of the current worldwide market for molybdenum and tungsten forms and fabricated products, as well as several other smaller domestic and foreign competitors. These two large 21 existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial resources than Elmet. Elmet may also face additional competition in the future to the extent new materials are developed that may be substituted for Elmet’s existing products. Elmet may not be able to compete effectively in the future, and competition might significantly reduce Elmet’s sales or depress the price of Elmet’s products, either of which events could adversely affect Elmet’s revenues and profitability. Competition from refractory metals manufacturers located outside of the United States may force Elmet to reduce the costs of its products or current or potential business may be lost. Elmet’s business is subject to direct competition from foreign refractory metals manufacturers. In particular, the supply and production costs of these competitors may be lower because of such factors as access to large molybdenum deposits located in China and lower labor costs in China. This may in turn create competitive pricing pressures and force Elmet to reduce the prices of its products or current or potential business may be lost. In addition, significant changes in U.S. and foreign currency relationships may result in pricing pressures that could adversely affect Elmet’s profit margins. Risks Related to Our Future Combined Operations With Elmet We have not had operations, and Elmet has never operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company after acquiring Elmet will be expensive and time consuming. Both we, as a company without business operations, and Elmet, as a private company, have maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. Upon the completion of the acquisition, our current chief executive officer and treasurer, Robert J. Hanks, and our current president, David A. R. Dullum, will resign from those offices but will remain members of our board of directors. John S. Jensen, Elmet’s chief executive officer, will become our president and chief executive officer, and Carl Miller, Elmet’s treasurer and chief financial officer, will become our treasurer and chief financial officer. Neither Mr. Jensen nor Mr. Miller has significant public company experience. Helping them become familiar with the requirements of operating a public company under U.S. securities laws could be expensive and time-consuming and lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations, including significantly increasing our costs and reducing our net income, if any. Neither we nor Elmet currently has an internal audit group. Although we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our very limited activities, we have not been required to maintain and establish such disclosure controls and procedures and internal control as will be required with respect to a business such as Elmet with substantial operations. As a private company, Elmet is not subject to the public company reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, nor the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and therefore Elmet’s internal controls and procedures have not been established according to the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the American Stock Exchange, we will need to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules, including the standards established by the PCAOB. Compliance with these obligations will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increase our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. We may also need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. 22 Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to document and test our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2007 and beyond and will require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of this control. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require our management to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal control commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. It will also require an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such control, and attest the accuracy of our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control, commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. It may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control- and procedure-related requirements. We may in the future discover areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement, particularly with respect to Elmet or other businesses that we may acquire in the future. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and in future periods as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could also potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Stock Exchange or other regulatory authorities. Risks Related to Our Possible Failure to Complete the Elmet Acquisition We may not be able to consummate the acquisition of Elmet, or another business combination, within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition by October 31, 2007 (or by April 30, 2008 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by October 31, 2007 and the business combination relative thereto has not been consummated by October 31, 2007). If we fail to consummate the acquisition of Elmet or another acquisition satisfying the net asset test within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account, and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete the acquisition of Elmet or another business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation value will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses related to our initial public offering, our operating expenses and the costs of performing due diligence for the acquisition, negotiating the stock purchase agreement and otherwise seeking a business combination. Furthermore, our warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. 23 We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with our operations and the proposed acquisition of Elmet, whether or not the acquisition is completed, which costs will significantly reduce the amount of cash we will have available to consummate another business combination if we fail to complete the Elmet acquisition. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with our operations and the proposed acquisition of Elmet, whether or not the acquisition is completed. Between the completion of our initial public offering on May 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006, we incurred a total of $1,132,067 of expenses relating to our operations and the proposed acquisition of Elmet. By incurring these costs, we have reduced and will significantly reduce the amount of cash available to be used for consummating another business combination if we fail to complete the Elmet acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 