Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. While both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have recently experienced record highs, we do not expect these trends to continue. Further, interest rates have risen from record low levels in 2003, resulting in reductions in the level of mortgage refinancings and total mortgage originations in 2004 and again in 2005. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. If either the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales declines, it could adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association currently projects residential mortgage production in 2006 to be $2.24 trillion, which would represent a 19.2% decline relative to 2005. The MBA further projects that the 19.2% decrease will result from purchase transactions declining from $1.49 billion in 2005 to $1.43 billion in 2006, or 3.6%, and refinancing transactions dropping from $1.29 billion to $0.81 billion, or 37.1%. Our subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede, or impose burdensome conditions on, actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of our subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which we operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: • licensing requirements; • trade and marketing practices; • accounting and financing practices; 14 Table of Contents • capital and surplus requirements; • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; • investment practices; • rate schedules; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing reserves; and • regulation of reinsurance. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Business — Regulation.” Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We get inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies from time to time about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative subpoenas. We attempt to cooperate with all such inquiries. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which require us to pay money or take other actions. These fines may be significant and actions we are required to take may adversely affect our business. For a discussion of certain pending or potential matters, see “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” Because we are dependent upon California for over 20 percent of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2005, California-based premiums accounted for 45.1% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 1.8% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 21% of our total title insurance premiums for 2005. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in the various states, with some states requiring our subsidiaries to file rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. The California Department of Insurance (“CDI”) has recently undertaken an examination of the levels of pricing and competition in the title insurance industry in California, with a view to determining whether prices are too high and, if so, implementing rate reductions. The CDI commissioned an analysis of the title insurance and escrow industry in California, and a report was prepared by an economist at the request of the California Insurance Commissioner. The report concluded that a reasonable degree of competition does not exist in the markets for title insurance and escrow services in California, and the CDI began holding hearings 15 Table of Contents in January 2006 to address the report’s findings. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the CDI’s examination or whether it will result in new legislation, regulation or restrictions on its title insurance operations in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry, including for us. Insurance regulators in New York, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and Texas have also announced similar inquiries (or other reviews of title insurance rates) and other states could follow. State regulators may use their rate-regulation oversight authority to take steps to cause us to reduce our rates, or block our attempts to increase our rates. Such actions by regulators could adversely affect our operating results. Further, U.S. Representative Oxley, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently asked the Government Accountability Office (the GAO) to investigate the title insurance industry. Representative Oxley stated that the Committee is concerned about payments that certain title insurers have made to developers, lenders and real estate agents for referrals of title insurance business. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” Representative Oxley asked the GAO to examine, among other things, the foregoing relationships and the levels of pricing and competition in the title insurance industry. We are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether it will adversely affect our business or results of operations. If the rating agencies further downgrade our company our results of operations and competitive position in the industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance companies are rated by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, A.M. Best, Demotech, and LACE. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. In connection with the announcement of the Distribution, S&P placed our A-financial strength rating on CreditWatch negative, Moody’s affirmed its A3 financial strength rating although the rating outlook was changed to negative and Fitch placed its financial strength rating on Rating Watch Negative. In addition, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries to A-. After the announcement of a merger between Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (“FIS”) and Certegy Inc. (“Certegy”), S&P revised its CreditWatch to positive from negative, Moody’s changed its rating outlook to stable from negative and Fitch revised its rating watch to stable from negative. S&P later upgraded our financial strength rating to A and revised its rating watch to stable. Our ratings are likely to continue to be affected in the future by credit events that may occur with respect to FNF and its other operations, including non-title insurance operations. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by those entities and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As a holding company, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries, and if distributions from our subsidiaries are materially impaired, our ability to declare and pay dividends may be adversely affected. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends or other funds to us, we may not be able to declare and pay dividends to our stockholders. Our title insurance subsidiaries must comply with state and federal laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2006, our directly owned title insurers can pay dividends or make distributions to us of approximately $289.9 million without prior regulatory approval. 16 Table of Contents We face competition in our title business from traditional title insurers and from new entrants with alternative products. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. According to Demotech, the top five title insurance companies accounted for 90.2% of net premiums collected in 2004. Over 40 independent title insurance companies accounted for the remaining 9.8% of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we conduct our business. In our principal markets, competitors include other major title underwriters such as The First American Corporation, LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc., Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corporation, as well as numerous smaller title insurance companies and independent agency operations at the regional and local level. These smaller companies may expand into other markets in which we compete. Also, the removal of regulatory barriers might result in new competitors entering the title insurance business, and those new competitors may include companies that have greater financial resources than we do and possess other competitive advantages. Competition among the major title insurance companies, expansion by smaller regional companies and any new entrants with alternative products could affect our business operations and financial condition. From time to time, we adjust the rates we charge in a particular state as a result of competitive conditions in that state. For example, in response to recent rate reductions by certain of our competitors, we recently adjusted our rate structure in California for refinancings. This change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, although its ultimate impact will depend, among other things, on the volume and mix of our future refinancing business in that state. We expect the title insurance industry to remain highly competitive. Our failure to remain competitive may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a consolidated, stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as a consolidated, stand-alone company. We were incorporated on May 24, 2005 in anticipation of the distribution of shares of our Class A Common Stock to FNF stockholders. On September 26, 2005, FNF contributed to us the various FNF subsidiaries that conduct our business. Our historical financial statements reflect assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses directly attributable to our operations, which include transactions between us and FNF and other affiliated entities. They exclude certain of our expenses that have been allocated to other operations of FNF and of FIS, and they reflect an allocation to us of a portion of the compensation of certain senior officers and other personnel of FNF who, following the Distribution, are no longer our employees but who have historically provided services to us. These allocations are expected to in general continue under the corporate services agreements we entered into in connection with the Distribution. Further, our financial statements reflect transactions with related parties, which were not negotiated on an arms-length basis. Our historical financial statements do not reflect the debt or interest expense we might have incurred if we had been a stand-alone entity. In addition, we will incur other expenses, not reflected in our historical financial statements, as a result of being a separate publicly traded company. As a result of these and other factors, our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been if we had been operated as a stand-alone public entity during the periods covered, and may not be indicative of future results of operations or financial position. We will be controlled by FNF as long as it owns a majority of the voting power of our common stock, which could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. As long as FNF continues to hold a majority of the voting power of our outstanding stock, FNF will be able to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. FNF currently owns 100% of our Class B Common Stock, representing approximately 82.5% of our outstanding common stock, and 97.9% of all voting power of our outstanding common stock. In order to consolidate the results of our operations for tax purposes and to get favorable tax treatment of dividends paid 17 Table of Contents by us, FNF is required to own at least 80% of our outstanding common stock and as a result FNF may be unlikely to decrease its ownership below 80%. The Class B Common Stock entitles FNF to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to stockholders until converted to Class A Common Stock. While it controls us, FNF will control decisions with respect to: • our business direction and policies, including the election and removal of our directors; • mergers or other business combinations involving us; • the acquisition or disposition of assets by us; • our issuance of stock; • our payment of dividends; • our financing; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. We have agreed that, without FNF’s consent, we will not issue any shares of our stock if as a result FNF would no longer be able to consolidate our results for tax purposes, receive favorable treatment with respect to dividends paid by us or, if it so desired, distribute the remainder of its FNT stock to its stockholders in a tax-free distribution. These limits will generally enable FNF to continue to own at least 80% of our outstanding common stock. Among other things, this control could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or to use our stock as currency in acquisitions. We could have conflicts with the entities remaining with FNF, and the chairman of our board of directors is also the chairman of the board of directors of FNF and FIS. Conflicts may arise between entities remaining with FNF and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. We will seek to manage any potential conflicts through our agreements with FNF and other FNF entities and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. However, there can be no assurances that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts. Mr. Foley is the chairman of our board of directors, the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of FNF, and the chairman of the board of directors of FIS. As an officer and director of multiple companies, he has obligations to us and to such other companies and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and their respective businesses. As an officer and director of multiple companies, he may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to any of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FNF and FIS stock and options. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and FNF or FIS. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FNF and FIS stock and stock options because of their relationships with FNF and FIS. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FNF, FIS or any of their respective subsidiaries. Substantially all members of our board of directors beneficially own shares of FNF common stock. Further, our senior officers hold interests in FNF and in some cases FIS that were obtained through various employee benefit and compensation plans while at FNF. In addition, officers of FNF will provide services from time to time to us. These persons also hold equity interests in FNF and FIS. 18 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may prevent us from receiving the benefit of certain corporate opportunities. Because FNF and FIS may engage in some of the same activities in which we engage, there is a risk that we may be in direct competition with FNF and FIS over business activities and corporate opportunities. To address these potential conflicts, we have adopted a corporate opportunity policy that has been incorporated into our certificate of incorporation. Among other things, this policy provides that FNF has no duty not to compete with us or to provide us with corporate opportunities of which it becomes aware. The policy also limits the situations in which one of our directors or officers, if also a director or officer of FNF, must offer corporate opportunities to us of which such individual becomes aware. These provisions may limit the corporate opportunities of which we are made aware or which are offered to us. Moreover, our ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities may be limited by FNF’s voting control over us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 