D. Risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred significant losses in the fiscal year 2006, which is likely to continue if we are unable to increase our revenues and further reduce our costs. If we do not generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability, we may be required to discontinue our operations or seek protection under the applicable bankruptcy statutes. We have incurred net losses in the amount of W17,369 million (US$18.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006. We have experienced losses during the first quarter of 2007 and there can be no assurance that we will achieve positive operating cash flow for any future financial periods. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased to W12,224 million as of December 31, 2006 from W31,040 million as of December 31, 2005, as a result of such losses, along with cash amounting to W6,524 million used for investing and financing activities in 2006. Our ability to generate future revenues will depend on securing design wins which will require continued research and development expenditures as well as sales and marketing activities. These research and development expenditures as well as other marketing expenses could continue to exceed our revenues, thus, preventing us from achieving profitability. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on a number of additional factors, including: • our ability to raise sufficient additional capital; • the commercial acceptance of our products and our ability to attain expected penetration within our target markets; • our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; and 3 Table of Contents • our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our foundry partners. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from our operations or raise additional funds, we may not be able to pay our existing debt or continue our operations. As a result, we may be required to sell all or a portion of our assets, significantly reduce, reorganize, discontinue or shut down our operations, or seek protection under the applicable bankruptcy statutes. We have lost many of our existing customers as we have failed to secure significant design wins based on our three transistor based image sensors since November 2006. If our next generation CMOS products fail to satisfy the product specification requirements expected by the market, our financial conditions and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to design and deliver cost effective camera chip solutions for our end-customers. We recently have failed to recognize the market preference for four transistor-based CMOS image sensors and have instead focused on designing three transistor-based image sensors, which in 2006 has resulted in the loss of several significant customers, such as Tomen Electronics Corp. and VK Corporation, which together had accounted for approximately 6.4% of our revenue in 2005. Although our next generation products are expected to meet the technological specifications that are expected by the market, customers may still decide not to purchase our products due to concerns about our financial and technical capability to deliver sufficient number of error-free products on time, or perceived lack of reliability. Consequently, even if our CMOS image sensor designs and end-products are comparable to those of our competitors’, we may not be able to generate new design wins. If our next generation CMOS products fail to satisfy the product specification requirements expected by the market or otherwise do not result in any significant orders, our financial conditions and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our independent registered public accounting firm has raised questions about our ability to continue as a going concern in their report on our audited financial statements, which may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital and on our stock price. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, an explanatory paragraph related to our ability to continue as a going concern. See note 2 of the accompanying financial statements to this form 20-F. The inclusion of this explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital, thereby resulting in lower prices for our ADSs than might otherwise prevail. Additional financing will be required if we are to sustain our operations, repay all of our existing obligations or achieve our strategic and operating objectives. Based on our current business plans, we believe that our existing cash resources and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, lease payments, R&D expenses and working capital requirements through the end of 2007. Unless we generate sufficient funds from operations this year, we may need to raise additional financing, through a combination of borrowings or the sale of equity or debt securities to finance our cash requirements for the subsequent year. Such financing may be very difficult for us to obtain or may not be available at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds or to sustain our operations in the future, substantial doubt may develop as to our ability to continue to operate our business as a going concern, with substantial adverse effects on the value of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. This uncertainty may also create concerns among our current and future customers, vendors and licensees as to whether we will be able to fulfill our obligations or, in the case of customers, fulfill their future product or service needs. As a result, our current and prospective customers, licensees and strategic partners might decide not to do business with us, or only do so on less favorable terms and conditions. If we fail to address our liquidity issues, our ability to continue our operations may be adversely affected. We are currently not meeting the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, which may cause our stock to be delisted and result in reduced liquidity of our stock, impact the trading price of our stock, and impair our ability to raise financing. On May 4, 2007, our ADS prices dropped below $1.00 and has continued to trade below the $1.00 level for a consecutive 30 day period as of June 18, 2007. As the price of our ADSs closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, we are not in 4 Table of Contents compliance with the Nasdaq Stock Market’s requirements for continued listing. We received a letter from Nasdaq on June 19, 2007, stating that we are not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450, the “Minimum Bid Price” rule, and that we will be given 180 days until December 17, 2007 to maintain the closing price of our shares above $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive days to regain compliance. If we do not regain compliance during that time, Nasdaq will delist our ADSs. In the event our ADSs are delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, trading in our common stock could thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called pink sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, the liquidity of our ADSs would likely be impaired, not only in the number of ADSs which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of the transactions, thereby resulting in lower prices for our ADSs than might otherwise prevail. We are currently experiencing a high employee turnover rate. If we cannot retain our key personnel or do not succeed in hiring and retaining qualified new employees, our sales and marketing strategies could be delayed, and our business may be adversely affected. In light of our recent financial difficulties, we have instituted certain cost-cutting measures to reduce our operating expenses as of January 31, 2007, one of which is a 15% reduction in salaries for all non-executive employees, and 20% to 30% reduction in salaries for all executive officers. During the first half of 2007, we lost 17 employees and hired 13 new employees at our headquarters, bringing the total number of employees at the headquarter to 87 as of June 14, 2007. We depend highly on our sales personnel to sell our products, many of whom would be difficult to replace as it is an important aspect of our sales strategy to have our sales personnel maintain continuous relationships with our customers to generate future businesses. As of June 14, 2007, our marketing and sales department employed 14 employees, compared to 22 as of December 31, 2006. The loss of these employees may seriously impact our business, especially if we are unable to identify, attract and recruit qualified sales, marketing, finance and management personnel. If we do not succeed in retaining and hiring new candidates with appropriate qualifications, our sales and marketing strategies could be negatively affected, which could reduce our future revenues and profitability. We have been named as defendant in certain litigation regarding intellectual property infringement, which has been diverting management attention and has been costly and time-consuming to defend. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We are currently a defendant in ongoing litigation matters regarding intellectual property infringement claims as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” Although we believe that these claims are invalid and our cancellation proceedings will be successful, if the relevant patents held by MagnaChip Semiconductor, Ltd., or MagnaChip, are found to be valid and we are held to have infringed those patents our core technology could be held to be infringing MagnaChip’s patents. In such an event, we may be required to pay substantial damages and develop alternative non-infringing intellectual property or enter into intellectual license agreements with MagnaChip which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If such intellectual property were to become unavailable, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Protracted litigation could also cause our customers, or potential customers, to defer or limit the purchase of our products until the resolution of such litigation. In addition, MagnaChip may seek to obtain an injunction to prevent us from selling our products or using technology that employs the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, other companies may pursue litigation against us with respect to other claims in the future. An adverse result in any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights may cause us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability for damages, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully infringed, and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could also result in significant expenses and the diversion of the attention of our management and technical personnel. 5 Table of Contents Although we take, and will continue to take, steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe third party intellectual property rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that other claims alleging infringement of third party rights may be brought against us which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in certain shareholder class action litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We are currently a defendant in ongoing shareholder class action litigation as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of the shareholder class action litigation. An unfavorable outcome from these litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. We depend on a few key customers to generate a majority of our revenues, and if any key customer was to discontinue, significantly reduce or delay or cancel its purchases of our products, or become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, our revenues could be significantly reduced. A significant portion of our revenue is currently derived from a relatively small number of customers. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 79%, 63% and 74% of our revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. In addition, our business with Sharp Corporation, or Sharp, through our services arrangement with Dongbu HiTek (formerly known as “Dongbu Electronics” and also “DongbuAnam Semiconductor Inc.”) accounted for 16.1% of our total revenues in 2006. In the event one or more of our top customers were to delay or cancel their production of products incorporating our CMOS image sensors or reduce or discontinue their dealings with us, we could suffer a significant decline in revenues. In addition, our customers conduct business in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries, such as mobile communications and consumer electronics. If any of our customers were to become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, we could be forced to write off related accounts receivables which were booked as revenues. For example, two of our top ten customers in 2004 based on revenues, Maxon Telecom Co., Ltd., or Maxon, and Telson Electronics Co., Ltd., or Telson, experienced financial difficulties in the second quarter of 2004 and are undergoing reorganization and bankruptcy, respectively. The total receivable from Maxon was approximately W1,119 million, which we have fully reserved. We cannot guarantee when or if we will recover any of such outstanding amounts. In addition, we have written off the entire amount of receivables from Telson, which totaled W191 million. During 2006, we fully reserved the entire amount of W173 million outstanding from VK Corporation, which filed for receivership in Korea. Intense competition from larger and more established CMOS image sensor manufacturers could reduce our market share, our revenues and our profits. The CMOS image sensor market is very competitive and is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving standards, short product life cycles and decreasing prices. As a result, we are not able to assess our exact competitive position relative to our main competitors. We face competition from well-established companies, such as MagnaChip, Micron Technology Inc., or Micron, OmniVision Technologies, Inc., or OmniVision, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Toshiba Corporation, that sell highly-integrated single chip CMOS image sensors, as well as from other competitors. We expect competition in the CMOS image sensor market to continue to increase. Compared to us, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, stronger name recognition, more established access to a large customer base and significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and technical resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, or price their products more aggressively and competitively than us. 6 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not seriously harm our business by reducing our market share, our revenues and our profits. Continuing declines in our average sales prices may result in declines in our gross margins and profits. The CMOS image sensor market is characterized by intense price competition. As a result, we have experienced market driven pricing pressures and a decline in average sales prices for our products, ranging from 2.8% to 40.6% decline in 2006 from 2005, which we expect will continue in the future. Our competitors, such as Micron and OmniVision, have significantly greater financial resources to withstand pricing pressures and declining margins. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices by achieving manufacturing cost efficiencies, developing new products incorporating more advanced technology or adding new features, our gross margins and profits will continue to decline. If we cannot develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset our initial product design, development, production and marketing costs, and our gross margins and profitability will continue to decline. The development of new CMOS image sensors is highly complex, and we have experienced significant delays in completing the development and introduction of new products in the year-ended 2006. As our products integrate new and more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design. Our future ability to develop and introduce new products depends on a number of factors, including: • our accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, pixel size, power requirements, optical size and other special features; • our timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • our successful partnerships with foundries to achieve timely and high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our new products and consumer acceptance of our customers’ end-products which incorporate our CMOS image sensors. If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset our costs, and our gross margins and profitability will continue to decline. We may not accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need, and therefore we may not be able to react to fluctuations in demand for our products, which could result in unsold inventory, lower revenues and declines in our gross margins. We forecast customer demand based on a number of factors, including customer data, market intelligence and historical data. However, accurate forecasting is a difficult process because actual customer demand often varies from customer data and projections, unexpected events occur, market intelligence can be wrong and historical data may not be reliable due to the relatively short history of the CMOS image sensor industry. It is critical that we accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need because if customer demand falls below our forecasts, we may be required to retain excess wafer inventories, which could increase our operating expenses and reduce our gross margins. In addition, rapid market driven declines in the value of image sensors may result in inventory write-downs, if the estimated realizable value for our goods in inventory is determined to be below our cost and the number of units on hand is determined to exceed the number of units that we had forecasted to sell over a certain period of time. As a result of unsold lower grade image sensors, canceled orders from financially-troubled customers, unsold image sensors manufactured in anticipation of future orders and a rapid decline in the value of our goods in inventory, we recognized a loss on valuation of inventory of W2,673 million and W8,148 million (US$8.8 million) in 2005 and 2006, respectively. If we are unable to more accurately forecast product demand, we face a higher risk of excess inventory and product obsolescence, which could increase our cost of revenue and reduce our gross margins. We also may not meet customers’ demands in a timely manner. 7 Table of Contents Because we depend on a single wafer foundry to manufacture all of our products, we have less control over the wafer manufacturing process and the allocation of manufacturing capacity. If our current wafer foundry experiences any disruption, we may not be able to find a replacement foundry. This dependence may limit our ability to respond promptly to increased customer demands, which could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations delays and costs, harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Currently, we rely on Dongbu HiTek, located in Korea, to produce all of our integrated circuit wafers. Although we entered into a manufacturing outsource agreement in November 2005 with United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, we expect our reliance on Dongbu HiTek to continue until the end of 2007, as we are still undergoing testing procedures with UMC. We expect to commence the actual manufacturing of our products at the time we release our 0.13 micron, or µm, process technology based CMOS image sensors, currently scheduled to be in the third quarter of 2007. Our current reliance on Dongbu HiTek involves a number of significant risks, including: • the sudden loss of all manufacturing services; • the lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • unavailability of, or delayed access to, next generation or key process technologies. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with Dongbu HiTek. Instead, we secure manufacturing capacity on a rolling six-month forecast and purchase order basis. Dongbu HiTek has no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order based on our rolling six-month forecast. Our requirements represent a small portion of Dongbu HiTek’s total manufacturing capacity, and it may reallocate capacity to more preferred customers during periods of high demand. If our independent foundries are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to continue to manufacture our wafers in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. As a result, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute foundries, a time-consuming and complex process that could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations delays and costs. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases, we may be required to incur additional production costs to secure access to alternative manufacturing services, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields and quality. If we fail to meet our wafer supply requirements in the future, our ability to win large customer orders and respond promptly to any increase in demand could be adversely affected, which could harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. If the mobile camera phone market fails to grow and develop as we anticipate, our future revenues and profits could decline. We derived approximately 92.0% and 74.5% of our revenues from the mobile camera phone market in each of 2005 and 2006, respectively. The remaining portions of our revenue during 2006 were derived from non-mobile applications, such as webcams, notebook embedded cameras and toys and games. We expect that our current business model and our future success will continue to depend in large part on the continued growth of the mobile camera phone market. If the mobile camera phone market does not grow as anticipated, or if demand for our image sensors in this market decreases, our future revenues and profits could decline. We have a limited number of patents and pending patent applications compared to our competitors, and we may be unable to protect adequately our existing intellectual property, which could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and profits. Compared to our well-established competitors, we have a relatively limited number of patents and pending patent applications. We cannot assure you that our limited number of patents, combined with trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective methods, will be effective in protecting our proprietary technologies. We currently have 15 patents issued in Korea and six patents issued outside of Korea, and 19 patent applications pending in Korea and nine patent applications pending in those countries which are members of the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We cannot assure you that any patent application will be successful or, if a patent is issued, that it will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. It may be possible for a third 8 Table of Contents party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. To minimize this risk, we may need to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement, and we may lose our competitive advantage before we detect any such infringement, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and profits. Furthermore, our limited number of patents and pending patent applications may limit our ability to compete effectively against our competitors with larger patent portfolios or defend against any patent infringement claims brought by those competitors. Our competitors may have developed or may develop technologies that are protected by patents, thereby making those technologies unavailable to us or available only under unfavorable terms and conditions. Unforeseen operational delays by our third party contractors in testing, packaging, and assembling our products can impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. We depend on independent contractors for testing and packaging of our CMOS image sensors and for assembly of our camera modules. We do not receive service or capacity guarantees from our third-party contractors. Instead, we obtain services from them on a purchase order basis. Our reliance on these third-party contractors involves risks, such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. These risks could result in product shortages or could increase our manufacturing, testing or packaging costs. If these contractors are unable or unwilling to continue to provide testing and packaging services or fail to deliver products of acceptable quality at an acceptable cost and in a timely manner, our business would be seriously harmed. We would have to identify and qualify substitute contractors, which could be costly, time-consuming and difficult, particularly given the limited number of alternative contractors providing the services we need. Any such unforeseen operational delays could impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. Increased tensions with North Korea could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea, as well as between North Korea and the United States, has increased as a result of a public announcement in February 2005 that North Korea possesses nuclear weapons and has declared that it will not participate in the six-party talks with Korea, the United States, China, Japan and Russia. In July 2005, North Korea returned to the six-party talks and held bilateral talks with the United States to discuss the issue of nuclear weapons. In September 2005, the six parties reached an accord, under which North Korea pledged to give up nuclear weapons and abandon existing nuclear programs in exchange for economic assistance and security assurances from the United States. However, obstacles are expected to remain as to the interpretation and implementation of the accord. There can be no assurance that the level of tensions will not escalate. We derived 25.9% and 22.5% of our revenues in 2005 and 2006, respectively, from our customers located in Korea. Although we do not derive any revenue from, and do not sell any of our products in, North Korea, any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, and the value of your investment in our ADSs may decrease. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth elsewhere in this section, as well as: • our financial results; • the history of, and the prospects for, us and our industry in which we compete; 9 Table of Contents • an assessment of our management, our past and present operations, and the prospects for, and timing of, our future revenues and cost structures; • the present state of our development; or • the valuation of other publicly-traded companies in our industry. In addition, from time to time, Nasdaq has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies. As a result, investors in our ADSs may experience a decrease in the value of our ADSs regardless of our operating performance or prospects. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. We are currently involved in a class action suit as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings” and an adverse ruling could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which could increase our net loss. We are a company incorporated in Korea and operate in a business and cultural environment that is different from that of the United States. Unlike certain other Korean companies currently listed on Nasdaq, we are not a public company in Korea. As such, we are not subject to any public reporting requirements and we are subject only to minimum corporate governance and reporting standards applicable to unlisted companies in Korea. As a public company listed on Nasdaq, we are subject to the reporting obligations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, which many consider to be more stringent, rigorous and expensive than those of Korea. As a result, we have been incurring greater costs for legal, accounting and other services than we had incurred as a private company. We also incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD. We expect these rules and regulations will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, will make some compliance activities more time-consuming and costly and, in turn, will increase our operating expenses and increase our net loss. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for 2006, which has certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to holders of common shares and ADSs. In general, we will be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year in which (i) 75% or more of our gross income consists of passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Based on the price of our common shares and ADSs during our 2006 taxable year and the amount of passive assets, including cash and cash equivalents, held by us throughout that year, we believe we were a PFIC for our 2006 taxable year. Further, there is a significant risk that we will be a PFIC for our 2007 taxable year, and we may be a PFIC for any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any year that you hold common shares or ADSs, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to you, including recharacterization of gains realized on the disposition of, and certain dividends received on, the common shares or ADSs as ordinary income earned pro rata over your holding period for such common shares or ADSs, taxed at the maximum rates applicable during the years in which such income is treated as earned, and subject to punitive interest charges for a deemed deferral benefit. You should consult your own tax advisor with respect to our potential PFIC status and the consequences to you. See “Item 10. Additional Information – 10.E. Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 10 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. The SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. Under the current rules, this requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for 2007. In addition, a public company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. This attestation report will be included in our annual report on Form 20-F for 2008. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain material weaknesses in our finance team’s ability to support the financial reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant. If we are not able to properly address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us for the Form 20-F for 2008, then it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a qualified report. In addition, during the course of such evaluation, documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Any of these outcomes could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us, our directors and officers. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and most of our directors and officers reside in Korea. All or a significant portion of our assets, and the assets of such persons, are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have, however, irrevocably appointed an agent in New York to receive service of process in any proceeding in the State of New York relating to our ADSs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state of the United States. 