D. Risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We incurred significant losses in the fiscal years 2006 and 2007, which is likely to continue if we are unable to increase our revenues and further reduce our costs. If we do not generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability, we may be required to discontinue our operations or seek protection under the applicable bankruptcy statutes. We incurred net losses in the amount of (Won)7,856 million (US$8.4 million) for the year ended December 31, 2007. We also experienced losses during the first quarter of 2008 and there can be no assurance that we will achieve positive operating cash flow for any future financial periods. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased to (Won)628 million as of December 31, 2007 and (Won)163 as of March 31, 2008, from (Won)12,224 million as of December 31, 2006, as a result of such losses, along with cash amounting to (Won)7,368 million used for investing and financing activities in 2007. Our ability to generate future revenues will depend on securing design wins which will require continued research and development expenditures as well as meeting quality and delivery requirements on time. Research and development expenditures as well as sales and marketing expenses this year could exceed our cash on hand, and even if we were to secure design wins, due to time lags between when an order is placed and actual revenue is recognized, we may not generate sufficient cash flow in time to become profitable. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will depend on a number of additional factors, including: • our ability to raise sufficient additional capital; • the commercial acceptance of our products and our ability to attain expected penetration within our target markets; • our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; and • our ability to establish and maintain relationships with our foundry partners. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from our operations or raise additional funds, we may not be able to pay our existing debt or continue our operations. As a result, we may be required to sell all or a portion of our assets, significantly reduce, reorganize, discontinue or shut down our operations, or seek protection under the applicable bankruptcy statutes. We recently secured design wins with our four transistor image sensors based on PlusPixel2™ technology. If our next generation CMOS products fail to satisfy the product specification requirements expected by our customers, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our ability to achieve profitability will in large part depend on our ability to design and deliver cost effective camera chip solutions for our end-customers. In the year ended December 31, 2007, our revenues decreased by 45.0% to (Won)17,590 million from (Won)31,996 million in the year ended December 31, 2006, as we lost several significant customers due to delays in new product launches. Since December 2007, however, we have acquired new design wins with several companies, including Samsung Electronics, Pantech and KTF Technology, with our new third generation image sensors based on PlusPixel2™ technology. Although our next 4 Table of Contents generation products are expected to meet anticipated technological specifications, customers, may still decide not to purchase our products due to concerns about our financial and technical capability to deliver sufficient numbers of error-free products on time, or perceived lack of reliability. If our next generation CMOS products fail to satisfy the product specification requirements expected by the market or other factors affect our ability to obtain significant orders, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our independent registered public accounting firm has raised questions about our ability to continue as a going concern in their report on our audited financial statements, which may adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital and our stock price. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, an explanatory paragraph related to our ability to continue as a going concern. See note 2 of the accompanying financial statements to this form 20-F. The inclusion of this explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital, thereby resulting in lower prices for our American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) than might otherwise prevail. Additional financing may be required to sustain our operations, repay our existing obligations and achieve our strategic and operating objectives. Our existing cash balance, along with our available credit facilities, will probably not be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for 2008. We will be required to raise additional financing, through a combination of borrowings or the sale of equity or debt securities to finance our cash requirements. Such financing may be very difficult for us to obtain or may not be available at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds to sustain our operations in the future, substantial doubt may develop as to our ability to continue to operate our business as a going concern, with substantial adverse effects on the value of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. This uncertainty may also create concerns among our current and future customers, vendors and licensees as to whether we will be able to fulfill our obligations or, in the case of customers, fulfill their future product or service needs. As a result, our current and prospective customers, licensees and strategic partners might decide not to do business with us, or only do so on less favorable terms and conditions. If we fail to address our liquidity issues, our ability to continue our operations may be adversely affected. We may not meet the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market, which may cause our stock to be delisted and result in reduced liquidity of our stock, impact the trading price of our stock and impair our ability to raise financing. On October 31, 2007, our ADS price dropped below $1.00 and continued to trade below the $1.00 level for more than 30 consecutive days. We received a letter from Nasdaq on December 14, 2007, stating that we were not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), the “Minimum Bid Price” rule, and that we would be given 180 days until June 18, 2008 to maintain the closing price of our shares above $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive days to regain compliance. On April 14, 2008, we effectuated a one-to-four (1:4) reverse stock split of our ADSs, which reduced the number of our ADSs issued and outstanding from roughly 8,500,000 ADSs to about 2,125,000 ADSs, but which did not affect our shareholders’ proportionate equity interest or voting rights in the Company. In connection with such stock split, the ratio of our common shares to ADSs changed from 1:2 to 2:1. The purpose of the reverse stock split was to increase the price of our ADSs above the $1.00 Minimum Bid Price and maintain the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market. On May 15, 2008, we received a bid price compliance letter from Nasdaq stating that we regained compliance with the minimum $1.00 per share requirement under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). On June 20, 2008, we received an equity deficiency notification letter from Nasdaq, which states that we are currently not in compliance with the minimum $10,000,000 stockholders’ equity requirement for continued 5 Table of Contents listing on The Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). We plan to furnish Nasdaq with plans that will entail specific measures to achieve and sustain compliance with all Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, including the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, on or before July 7, 2008. However, there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will find such plan sufficient and it may determine that our plans to meet the Global Market listing requirements are insufficient. If Nasdaq determines that we have not presented a definitive plan to achieve compliance in the short term and sustain compliance in the long term, we may be required to delist our ADSs or transfer the listing of our ADSs to The Nasdaq Capital Market. If our ADSs get delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, trading in our common stock could thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter markets on Pink Sheets, the OTC Bulletin Board or on The Nasdaq Capital Market. In such event, the liquidity of our ADSs would likely be impaired, not only in the number of ADSs which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of the transactions, thereby resulting in lower prices for our ADSs than might otherwise prevail. We are currently experiencing a high employee turnover rate. If we cannot retain our key personnel or do not succeed in hiring and retaining qualified new employees, our sales and marketing strategies could be delayed, and our business may be adversely affected. In light of our financial difficulties, we have instituted certain cost-cutting measures to reduce our operating expenses since January 2007. During 2007 and the first half of 2008, we lost 27 employees and hired 19 new employees at our headquarters, bringing the total number of employees at the headquarters to 80 as of June 10, 2008. We depend highly on our sales personnel to sell our products, many of whom would be difficult to replace as it is an important aspect of our sales strategy to have our sales personnel maintain continuous relationships with our customers to generate future business. As of June 10, 2008, our marketing and sales department employed 13 employees, compared to 10 as of December 31, 2007. The loss of these employees could seriously impact our business, especially if we are unable to identify, attract and recruit qualified sales, marketing, finance and management personnel. If we do not succeed in retaining and hiring new candidates with appropriate qualifications, our sales and marketing strategies could be negatively affected, which could reduce our future revenues and profitability. We have been named as a defendant in certain litigation regarding intellectual property infringement, which has been diverting management attention and has been costly and time-consuming to defend. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We are currently a defendant in ongoing litigation matters regarding intellectual property infringement claims as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” Although we believe that these claims are invalid and our cancellation proceedings will be successful, if the relevant patents held by MagnaChip Semiconductor, Ltd., or MagnaChip, are found to be valid and we are held to have infringed those patents our core technology could be held to be infringing MagnaChip’s patents. In such an event, we may be required to pay substantial damages and develop alternative non-infringing intellectual property or enter into intellectual property license agreements with MagnaChip which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If such intellectual property were to become unavailable, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Protracted litigation could also cause our customers, or potential customers, to defer or limit the purchase of our products until the resolution of such litigation. In addition, MagnaChip may seek to obtain an injunction to prevent us from selling our products or using technology that employs the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, other companies may pursue litigation against us with respect to other claims in the future. An adverse result in any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights may cause us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability for damages, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully 6 Table of Contents infringed, and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, will likely be expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could also result in significant expenses and the diversion of the attention of our management and personnel. Although we take, and will continue to take, steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe third party intellectual property rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that other claims alleging infringement of third party rights may be brought against us which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in certain shareholder class action litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in a shareholder class action litigation as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceeding.” The litigation process has utilized a material portion of our cash resources and diverted management’s attention from the day to day operations of our company. On April 15, 2008, we reached a tentative settlement to resolve the consolidated shareholder class action lawsuit against us and certain current and former directors and officers filed in April 2006 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Under the terms of the tentative settlement, we have approved a settlement payment of US$1.0 million. The settlement provides for a dismissal of the lawsuit with prejudice and full releases for the Company and the named officers and directors from all allegations made in the lawsuit. The settlement further provides for no presumption or admission of fault, liability or wrongdoing by the Company or the directors or officers. The settlement payment will be funded by the Company’s directors and officers liability insurance. Given available insurance and other factors, we presently believe this settlement payment will not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. We depend on a few key customers to generate a majority of our revenues, and if any key customer was to discontinue, significantly reduce or delay or cancel its purchases of our products, or become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, our revenues could be significantly reduced. A significant portion of our revenue is currently derived from a relatively small number of customers. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 63%, 74%, and 69% of our revenues in 2005, 2006, and 2007 respectively. In addition, the royalty income we receive from Sharp Corporation, or Sharp, under the co-development agreement with them accounted for 23% of our total revenues in 2007. In the event one or more of our top customers were to delay or cancel their production of products incorporating our CMOS image sensors or reduce or discontinue their dealings with us, we could suffer a significant decline in revenues. In addition, our customers conduct business in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries, such as mobile communications and consumer electronics. If any of our customers were to become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, we could be forced to write off related accounts receivables which were booked as revenues. For example, two of our top ten customers in 2004 based on revenues, Maxon Telecom Co., Ltd., or Maxon, and Telson Electronics Co., Ltd., or Telson, experienced financial difficulties in the second quarter of 2004 and are 7 Table of Contents both undergoing reorganization and bankruptcy. The total receivables from Maxon as of December 31, 2007 was approximately (Won)1,126 million, which we have fully reserved. We cannot guarantee when or if we will recover any of such outstanding amount. In addition, we have written off the entire amount of receivables from Telson, which totaled (Won)191 million. During 2006, we fully reserved the entire amount of (Won)173 million outstanding from VK Corporation, which filed for receivership in Korea. Intense competition from larger and more established CMOS image sensor manufacturers could reduce our market share, our revenues and our profits. The CMOS image sensor market is very competitive and is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving standards, short product life cycles and decreasing prices. As a result, we are not able to assess our exact competitive position relative to our main competitors. We face competition from well-established companies, such as MagnaChip, Micron Technology Inc., or Micron, Samsung LSI, OmniVision Technologies, Inc., or OmniVision, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Toshiba Corporation, that sell highly-integrated single chip CMOS image sensors, as well as from other competitors. We expect competition in the CMOS image sensor market to continue to increase. Compared to us, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, stronger name recognition, more established access to a large customer base and significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and technical resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, or price their products more aggressively and competitively than us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not seriously harm our business by reducing our market share, our revenues and our profits. Continuing declines in our average sales prices may result in declines in our gross margins and profits. The CMOS image sensor market is characterized by intense price competition. As a result, we have experienced market driven pricing pressures and a decline in average sales prices for our products, with declines ranging from 18.2% to 51.6% in 2007 compared to 2006, which we expect will continue in the future. Our competitors, such as Micron and OmniVision, have significantly greater financial resources to withstand pricing pressures and declining margins. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices by achieving manufacturing cost efficiencies, developing new products incorporating more advanced technology or adding new features, our gross margins and profits will continue to decline. If we cannot develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset our initial product design, development, production and marketing costs, and our gross margins and profitability will continue to decline. The development of new CMOS image sensors is highly complex. As our products integrate new and more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design. Our future ability to develop and introduce new products depends on a number of factors, including: • our accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, pixel size, power requirements, optical size and other special features; • our timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • our successful partnerships with foundries to achieve timely and high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our new products and consumer acceptance of our customers’ end-products which incorporate our CMOS image sensors. 8 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset our costs, and our gross margins and profitability will continue to decline. We may not accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need, and therefore we may not be able to react to fluctuations in demand for our products, which could result in unsold inventory, lower revenues and declines in our gross margins. We forecast customer demand based on a number of factors, including customer data, market intelligence and historical data. However, accurate forecasting is a difficult process because actual customer demand often varies from customer data and projections, unexpected events occur, market intelligence can be wrong and historical data may not be reliable due to the relatively short history of the CMOS image sensor industry. It is critical that we accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need because if customer demand falls below our forecasts, we may be required to retain excess wafer inventories, which could increase our operating expenses and reduce our gross margins. In addition, rapid market driven declines in the value of image sensors may result in inventory write-downs, if the estimated realizable value for our goods in inventory is determined to be below our cost and the number of units on hand is determined to exceed the number of units that we had forecasted to sell over a certain period of time. As a result of unsold lower grade image sensors, canceled orders from financially-troubled customers, unsold image sensors manufactured in anticipation of future orders and a rapid decline in the value of our goods in inventory, we recognized a loss on valuation of inventory of (Won)8,148 million and (Won)1,352 million (US$1.4 million) in 2006 and 2007, respectively. If we are unable to more accurately forecast product demand, we face a higher risk of excess inventory and product obsolescence, which could increase our cost of revenue and reduce our gross margins. We also may not meet customers’ demands in a timely manner. Because we depend on two wafer foundries to manufacture all of our products, we have limited control over the wafer manufacturing process and the allocation of manufacturing capacity. If our current wafer foundries experience any disruption, we may not be able to find a replacement foundry or foundries. This dependence may limit our ability to respond promptly to increased customer demands, which could cause unforeseen manufacturing and operational delays and costs, harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Currently, we rely on Dongbu HiTek Co., Ltd. (“Dongbu Hitek”), located in Korea, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, located in Taiwan, to produce all of our integrated circuit wafers. In November 2005, we entered into a manufacturing outsourcing agreement with UMC, which currently manufactures all of our third generation image sensors based on PlusPixel2™ technology. Our current reliance on Dongbu HiTek and UMC involves a number of significant risks, including: • the sudden loss of all manufacturing services; • the lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • unavailability of, or delayed access to, next generation or key process technologies. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with Dongbu HiTek or UMC. Instead, we secure manufacturing capacity on a rolling six-month forecast and purchase order basis. Dongbu HiTek and UMC have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order based on our rolling six-month forecast. Our requirements represent a small portion of Dongbu HiTek’s and UMC’s total manufacturing capacity, and they may reallocate capacity to more preferred customers during periods of high demand. 9 Table of Contents If our independent foundries are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to continue to manufacture our wafers in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. As a result, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute foundries, a time-consuming and complex process that could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operational delays and costs. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases, we may be required to incur additional production costs to secure access to alternative manufacturing services, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields and quality. If we fail to meet our wafer supply requirements in the future, our ability to win large customer orders and respond promptly to any increase in demand could be adversely affected, which could harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. If the mobile camera phone market fails to grow and develop as we anticipate, our future revenues and profits could decline. We derived approximately 74.5% and 76.0% of our revenues from the mobile camera phone market in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The remaining portions of our revenue during 2007 were derived from non-mobile applications, such as webcams, notebook embedded cameras, toys and games. We expect that our current business model and our future success will continue to depend in large part on the continued growth of the mobile camera phone market. If the mobile camera phone market does not grow as anticipated, or if demand for our image sensors in this market decreases, our future revenues and profits could decline. We have a limited number of patents and pending patent applications compared to our competitors, and we may be unable to protect adequately our existing intellectual property, which could adversely affect our competitive position, and our ability to generate revenues and profits. Compared to our well-established competitors, we have a relatively limited number of patents and pending patent applications. We cannot assure you that our limited number of patents, combined with trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other protective methods, will be effective in protecting our proprietary technologies. We currently have 35 patents issued in Korea and 6 patents issued outside of Korea, and 3 patent applications pending in Korea and 18 patent applications pending in those countries which are members of the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We cannot assure you that any patent application will be successful or, if a patent is issued, that it will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. To minimize this risk, we may need to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our limited number of patents and pending patent applications may limit our ability to compete effectively against our competitors with larger patent portfolios or defend against any patent infringement claims brought by those competitors. Our competitors may have developed or may develop technologies that are protected by patents, thereby making those technologies unavailable to us or available only under unfavorable terms and conditions. Unforeseen operational delays by our third party contractors in testing, packaging, and assembling our products can impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. We depend on independent contractors for testing and packaging of our CMOS image sensors and for assembly of our camera modules. We do not receive service or capacity guarantees from our third-party contractors. Instead, we obtain services from them on a purchase order basis. Our reliance on these third-party contractors involves risks, such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. These 10 Table of Contents risks could result in product shortages or could increase our manufacturing, testing or packaging costs. If these contractors are unable or unwilling to continue to provide testing and packaging services or fail to deliver products of acceptable quality at an acceptable cost and in a timely manner, our business would be seriously harmed. We would have to identify and qualify substitute contractors, which could be costly, time-consuming and difficult, particularly given the limited number of alternative contractors providing the services we need. Any such unforeseen operational delays could impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. Risks related to Korea and other risks Increased tensions with North Korea could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea and increased hostility between North Korea and the United States. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including inspections of cargo to or from North Korea. In response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility, and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In return, the other five parties in the six-party talks agreed to provide emergency energy assistance of 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil to North Korea in the initial phase. On October 3, 2007, participants of the six-party talks reached an agreement under which North Korea committed to dispose of all its existing nuclear facilities by the end of 2007. On October 4, 2007, at the conclusion of an inter- Korean summit, Korea and North Korea signed an eight-point joint declaration in which they vowed to work together on eight major issues, including the replacement of the armistice which ended the Korean War with a peace treaty. In addition, the United States and Korea have been reassessing the nature of their military alliance in Korea. In October 2004, the United States and Korea agreed to a three-phase withdrawal of approximately one-third of the 37,500 U.S. troops then stationed in Korea by the end of 2008. By the end of 2006, 10,000 U.S. troops had departed Korea, with the remaining 2,500 U.S. troops to be withdrawn by the end of 2008. Further, in February 2007, the United States and Korea agreed to dissolve their joint command structure by 2012, which would allow Korea to assume the command of its own armed forces in the event of war on the Korean peninsula. We derived 22.5% and 29.7% of our revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively, from our customers located in Korea. Although we do not derive any revenue from, and do not sell any of our products in, North Korea, any further increase in tensions or any military hostilities which may occur, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents If economic conditions in Korea deteriorate, our current business and future growth could be materially and adversely affected. We are incorporated in Korea and a substantial portion of our operations and assets are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in the past few years have shown mixed signs of recovery and uncertainty, and future recovery and growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could hurt Korea’s economy in the future include: • financial problems relating to chaebols (Korean conglomerates), or their suppliers, and their potential adverse impact on the Korean economy; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols; • political instability that may arise in connection with the recent presidential election; • a slowdown in consumer spending and the overall economy, including the real estate market; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including an increase in oil prices), exchange rates (including depreciation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • deterioration of economic or market conditions in other markets, including the sub-prime market in the United States and elsewhere; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere that could result in a loss of confidence in the Korean economy; • political, social and labor unrest; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of SARS or avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil resulting from those hostilities; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea and/or the United States. Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, and the value of your investment in our ADSs may decrease. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth elsewhere in this section, as well as: • our financial results; • the history of, and the prospects for, us and the industry in which we compete; • an assessment of our management, our past and present operations, and the prospects for, and timing of, our future revenues and cost structures; • the present state of our development; or • the valuation of other publicly-traded companies in our industry. 12 Table of Contents In addition, from time to time, Nasdaq has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies. As a result, investors in our ADSs may experience a decrease in the value of our ADSs regardless of our operating performance or prospects. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. We believe that we may have been a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for 2007, which has certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to holders of common shares and ADSs. In general, we will be considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year in which (i) 75% or more of our gross income consists of passive income or (ii) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of our assets consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Based on the price of our common shares and ADSs during our 2007 taxable year and the amount of passive assets, including cash and cash equivalents, held by us throughout that year, we believe we may have been a PFIC for our 2007 taxable year. Further, there is a significant risk that we will be a PFIC for our 2008 taxable year, and we may be a PFIC for future taxable years. If we are a PFIC for any year that you hold common shares or ADSs, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to you, including re-characterization of gains realized on the disposition of, and certain dividends received on, the common shares or ADSs as ordinary income earned pro rata over your holding period for such common shares or ADSs, taxed at the maximum rates applicable during the years in which such income is treated as earned, and subject to interest charges for a deemed deferral benefit. You should consult your own tax advisor with respect to our potential PFIC status and the consequences to you. See “Item 10. Additional Information—10.E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. The SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report on internal control over financial reporting in their annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, containing an assessment by management of the effectiveness of companies internal control over financial reporting. We have included our management’s first report on our internal control over financial reporting in this annual report. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a public company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. This attestation report will be included in our annual report on Form 20-F for 2009 because the delay to 2009 of Section 404(b) requirement for non-accelerated filers has been approved by the SEC on June 20, 2008. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, our management identified certain material weaknesses in our finance team’s ability to support the financial reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant. While several of our material weaknesses were addressed during 2007, our management believes that four specific material weaknesses still remain in our internal control over financial reporting in 2007, as discussed in more detail under item 15 hereof. If our management identifies new material weaknesses in 2008 or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us for the Form 20-F for 2008, then we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 or the public accounting firm may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a qualified report. Any of these outcomes could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. 13 Table of Contents You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us, and our directors and officers. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and most of our directors and officers reside in Korea. All or a significant portion of our assets, and the assets of such persons, are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have, however, irrevocably appointed an agent in New York to receive service of process in any proceeding in the State of New York relating to our ADSs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state of the United States. 