Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. General If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. Both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have recently experienced declines in many parts of the country, and it is uncertain how long these trends will continue. Further, through the end of the third quarter of 2007, interest rates have risen from record low levels in 2003, resulting in reductions in the level of mortgage refinancings and total mortgage originations through 2007. 14 Table of Contents We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association currently projects residential mortgage production in 2008 to be $2.0 trillion, which would represent a 16.0% decline relative to 2007. The MBA further projects that the 16.0% decrease will result from purchase transactions declining from $1.2 trillion in 2007 to $0.9 trillion in 2008 or 21.3% and refinance transactions dropping from $1.2 trillion in 2007 to $1.0 trillion in 2008, or 10.8%. If we observe changes in the rate of title insurance claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the actuarial point estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary’s calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary’s point estimate, but not at the point estimate, management assesses other factors in order to be comfortable with the position of the recorded reserve within a range. These factors, which are more qualitative than quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), the stratification of certain claims (large vs. small), improvements in the Company’s claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary’s point estimate, we would record a charge and reassess the long-term provision on a go forward basis. As a result of adverse claim loss development on prior policy years, we recorded charges in 2007 totaling $217.2 million, or $159.5 million net of income taxes, to our provision for claim losses. These charges were recorded in addition to our 7.5% provision for claim losses. These charges brought our reserve position to a level that represents our best estimate of our ultimate liability. We will reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology and can make no assurance that we will not need to record charges in the future to increase reserves in respect of prior periods. Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede, or impose burdensome conditions on, actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: • licensing requirements; • trade and marketing practices; • accounting and financing practices; • capital and surplus requirements; • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; • investment practices; • rate schedules; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing reserves; and • regulation of reinsurance. 15 Table of Contents Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Business — Regulation.” State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in the various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. See the risk factor below relating to regulatory conditions in California. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We receive inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies from time to time about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative subpoenas. We attempt to cooperate with all such inquiries. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which require us to pay money or take other actions. These fines may be significant and actions we are required to take may adversely affect our business. Because we are dependent upon California for approximately 17 percent of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2007, California-based premiums accounted for 33.0% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 3.0% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 16.5% of our total title insurance premiums for 2007. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In January 2007, the California Insurance Commissioner submitted to the California Office of Administrative Law (the “OAL”) proposed regulations (the “Proposed Regulations”) that would have significant effects on the title insurance industry in California. On February 21, 2007, the OAL disapproved the Proposed Regulations. On June 28, 2007, the California Department of Insurance (the “CDI”) submitted a modified version of the Proposed Regulations to the OAL. The only substantive change in this modified version of the Proposed Regulations was to delay the implementation dates by approximately one year. The OAL approved the modified version of the Proposed Regulations on July 26, 2007 (as approved, the “Regulations”) and filed them with the California Secretary of State. Notwithstanding the promulgation of the Regulations, we, as well as others, have been engaged in discussions with the CDI regarding possible industry reforms that may result in the CDI’s decision to modify or repeal the Regulations prior to their implementation. In the event that the CDI does not modify or repeal the Regulations prior to their implementation, the Regulations are expected to have significant effects on the title insurance industry in California. Among other things, the Regulations set “maximum” rates, effective as of October 1, 2010, for title and escrow using industry data to be reported through the statistical plan described below and published by the CDI. In addition, the Regulations establish an interim reduction of all title and escrow rates effective October 1, 2010 if the CDI is unable to publish the data necessary for the calculation of the maximum rates by August 1, 2010. These interim rate reductions are intended to roll rates back so that, in effect, premiums would be 16 Table of Contents charged on the basis of real property values from the year 2000. Title insurers would be required to reduce their rates to a level below their 2000 rates, with the amount of the reduction determined by a formula adjusting for real estate appreciation and inflation. We are concerned that the reduced rates set by the Regulations will significantly reduce the title and escrow rates that are charged in California, while precluding title insurers from seeking relief from those reduced or maximum rates. In addition, the Regulations create a detailed statistical plan, and require each title insurer, underwritten title company, and controlled escrow company to collect data at the individual transaction level beginning on January 1, 2009, and to report such data to the CDI on an annual basis beginning April 30, 2010. Compliance with the data collection and reporting requirements of the Regulations would necessitate a significant revision and augmentation of our existing data collection and accounting systems before January 1, 2009, and would require a significant expenditure to comply with the April 30, 2010 reporting deadline. The required rate reductions and maximum rates would significantly reduce the title insurance rates that our subsidiaries can charge, and would likely have a significant negative impact on our California revenues. In addition, the increased cost of compliance with the statistical data collection and reporting requirements would negatively impact our cost of doing business in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry, including for us. We continue to meet with the CDI to discuss possible modifications to the Regulations and alternatives that could result in the repeal of the Regulations prior to their initial implementation. On October 5, 2007, the California Insurance Commissioner sent a letter to the title insurance industry outlining a series of acts that he has agreed to undertake in an effort to minimize the impact of the Regulations and to lay further groundwork for a possible resolution involving the modification or repeal of the Regulations prior to their initial implementation. Among other things, the California Insurance Commissioner stated in such letter that (i) the CDI will propose substantial changes to the data collection and reporting requirements of the Regulations that are designed to minimize compliance costs, (ii) the CDI will delay all effective dates in the Regulations by one year, which will have the effect of deferring the date on which the industry would be required to submit its first statistical report under the Regulations to April 30, 2011, and deferring the first possible rate reduction under the Regulations to October 1, 2011, and (iii) if the industry works with the CDI to enact substantive alternative reforms, the CDI is willing to eliminate the maximum rate formula altogether. In addition, we are exploring litigation alternatives in the event that the CDI does not modify or repeal the Regulations, including a possible lawsuit challenging the CDI’s authority to promulgate rate regulations and statistical plan regulations related thereto. If the rating agencies downgrade our Company, our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, A.M. Best, Demotech and LACE. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by those entities and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our rate of growth could be adversely affected if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates. As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and, assuming we find them, to finance such acquisitions on acceptable terms. We have historically used, and in the future may continue to use, a variety of sources of financing to fund our acquisitions, including cash from operations, debt and equity. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of risks, including the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and variability in our stock price. These factors may inhibit our ability to pursue attractive acquisition targets. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. 17 Table of Contents Our management has articulated a willingness to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt. Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operating segments. Accordingly, we have in the past year acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth and successfully integrating new businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have historically achieved growth through a combination of developing new products and services, increasing our market share for existing products, and making acquisitions. Part of our strategy is to pursue opportunities to diversify and expand our operations by acquiring or making investments in other companies. The success of each acquisition will depend upon: • our ability to integrate the acquired business’ operations, products and personnel; • our ability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • our ability to expand our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; • our ability to maintain the customers and goodwill of the acquired business; and • any unexpected costs or unforeseen liabilities associated with the acquired business. The integration of two previously separate companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect each company’s ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. In addition, any successful integration of companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day businesses. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. Our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Our title insurance and specialty insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2008, our title insurers will be able to pay dividends or make distributions to us without prior regulatory approval of approximately $251.1 million. Our specialty insurance segment is a smaller, growing operation and, as a result, it will likely be difficult under current circumstances for it to be a significant source of cash to us. 18 Table of Contents We could have conflicts with FIS, and our chairman of our board of directors is also the chairman of the board of directors of FIS. Conflicts may arise between FIS and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. We will seek to manage any potential conflicts through our agreements with FIS and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. However, there can be no assurances that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FIS stock and stock options. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FIS. William P. Foley, II, is the chairman of our board of directors and the executive chairman of the board of FIS. As a result of his roles, he has obligations to us and to FIS and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and FIS’s respective businesses. In addition, Mr. Foley may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to either of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Finally, five of our directors, including Mr. Foley, are also directors of FIS. If the 2006 Distribution does not constitute a tax free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or the Old FNF-FIS merger does not constitute a tax free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the code, then we may have to indemnify FIS or Old FNF for payment of taxes and tax-related losses. FNF may be affected by significant restrictions with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax free status of the distribution or merger. Under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to enter into with Old FNF and FIS as a condition to the closing of the 2006 Distribution, we are required to indemnify Old FNF and FIS for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) if the 2006 Distribution was determined to be taxable either to Old FNF or the Old FNF stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination was the result of a breach by FIS of its agreement not to take any action within its control that would cause the 2006 Distribution to be taxable or the result of an acquisition of FIS stock within the control of FIS or an FIS subsidiary. Old FNF estimated that the amount of our indemnification obligation for the amount of tax on Old FNF’s transfer of our stock in the distribution could be in the range of $150 million and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of our stock at the time of the 2006 Distribution. In addition, we are required under the tax disaffiliation agreement to indemnify Old FNF and FIS for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) in the event the Old FNF-FIS merger were determined to be taxable. Old FNF estimated that the amount of our indemnification obligation for the amount of tax on Old FNF’s transfer and retirement of its FIS stock in the merger could be in the range of $1 billion and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of FIS’s stock at the time of the merger. Even if the 2006 Distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of our common stock to the Old FNF stockholders may not qualify as tax free to Old FNF (or its successor upon the consummation of the merger, FIS) under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50% or more of our stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the 2006 Distribution. In order to help preserve the tax free treatment of the 2006 Distribution, we have agreed not to take certain actions without first obtaining the consent of certain officers of FIS or obtaining an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that such transaction will not cause the 2006 Distribution to be taxable under Section 355(e). In general, such actions would include, for a period of two years after the 2006 Distribution, engaging in certain transactions involving (i) the acquisition of our stock or (ii) the issuance of shares of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may prevent us from receiving the benefit of certain corporate opportunities. Because FIS may engage in some of the same activities in which we engage, there is a risk that we may be in direct competition with FIS over business activities and corporate opportunities. To address these potential 19 Table of Contents conflicts, a corporate opportunity policy is incorporated into our certificate of incorporation. Among other things, this policy provides that FIS has no duty not to compete with us. The policy also limits the situations in which one of our directors or officers, if also a director or officer of FIS, must offer corporate opportunities to us of which such individual becomes aware. These provisions may limit the corporate opportunities of which we are made aware or which are offered to us. The markets in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we, and we may face competition from new entrants with alternative products or services. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. According to Demotech, the top five title insurance companies accounted for 92.6% of net premiums collected in 2006. Over 40 independent title insurance companies accounted for the remaining 7.4% of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we conduct our title insurance business. In our principal markets, competitors include other major title underwriters such as The First American Corporation, LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc., Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corporation, as well as numerous smaller title insurance companies, underwritten title companies, and independent agency operations at the regional and local level. These smaller companies may expand into other markets in which we compete. Also, the removal of regulatory barriers might result in new competitors entering the title insurance business, and those new competitors may include companies that have greater financial resources than we do and possess other competitive advantages. Competition among the major title insurance companies, expansion by smaller regional companies and any new entrants with alternative products could affect our business operations and financial condition. From time to time, we adjust the title insurance rates we charge in a particular state as a result of competitive conditions in that state. Changes in price could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, although its ultimate impact will depend, among other things, on the volume and mix of our future business in that state and within various portions of the state. The markets for our other products and services are also very competitive, and we expect the markets for all of our products and services to remain highly competitive. Our failure to remain competitive may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 