Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.GeneralIf adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline.Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations:•when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing;•when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and•when the United States economy is weak, including high unemployment levels.Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association's ("MBA") Mortgage Finance Forecast currently estimates an approximately $1.4 trillion mortgage origination market for 2013, which would be a decrease of 22.2% from 2012. The MBA forecasts that the 22.2% decrease will result almost entirely from decreased refinance activity. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate.We have recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and an economic downturn could cause these balances to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income.Goodwill aggregated approximately $1,908.5 million, or 19.3% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2012. Current accounting rules require that goodwill be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance indicating the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. No goodwill impairment charge was recorded in 2012. However, if there is an economic downturn in the future, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization and the impact of the economy to determine if there is an impairment of goodwill in future periods.If economic and credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio.Our investment portfolio is exposed to economic and financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. Our investment policy is designed to maximize total return through investment income and capital appreciation consistent with moderate risk of principal, while providing adequate liquidity and complying with internal and regulatory guidelines. To achieve this objective, our marketable debt investments are primarily investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. We make investments in certain equity securities and preferred stock in order to take advantage of perceived value and for strategic purposes. In the past, economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and have affected the values of investment securities. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We own a minority interest in Ceridian Corporation ("Ceridian"), a leading provider of global human capital management and payment solutions. If the fair value of this company were to decline below book value, we would be required to write down the value of our investment, which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If this company were to experience significant negative volatility in its results of operations it would have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations due to our inclusion of our portion of its earnings in our results of operations.14Table of ContentsIf financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company.We hold customers' assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of real estate transactions. These assets are maintained in segregated bank accounts and have not been included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. We have a contingent liability relating to proper disposition of these balances for our customers, which amounted to $7.5 billion at December 31, 2012. Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties and there is no guarantee that we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage or otherwise.If we experience changes in the rate or severity of title insurance claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility.By their nature, claims are often complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts and are affected by economic and market conditions and the legal environment existing at the time of settlement of the claims. Estimating future title loss payments is difficult because of the complex nature of title claims, the long periods of time over which claims are paid, significantly varying dollar amounts of individual claims and other factors. From time to time, we experience large losses or an overall worsening of our loss payment experience in regard to the frequency or severity of claims that require us to record additional charges to our claims loss reserve. There are currently pending several large claims which we believe can be defended successfully without material loss payments. However, if unanticipated material payments are required to settle these claims, it could result in or contribute to additional charges to our claim loss reserves. These loss events are unpredictable and adversely affect our earnings.At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the actuary's central estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary’s calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary’s central estimate, but not at the central estimate, management assesses other factors in order to determine our best estimate. These factors, which are more qualitative than quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), any adjustments from the actuarial estimates needed for the effects of unusually large or small claims, improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. Depending upon our assessment of these factors, we may or may not adjust the recorded reserve. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary’s central estimate, we would record a charge or credit and reassess the provision rate on a go forward basis.Our average provision for claim losses was 7.0% of title premiums in 2012. We will reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology and can make no assurance that we will not need to record additional charges in the future to increase reserves in respect of prior periods.Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede or impose burdensome conditions on actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries.Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters:•licensing requirements;•trade and marketing practices;•accounting and financing practices;•capital and surplus requirements;•the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries;•investment practices;•rate schedules;•deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders;•establishing reserves; and•regulation of reinsurance.Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Further, various state legislatures have in the past considered offering a public alternative to the title industry in their states, as a means to increase state government revenues. 15Table of ContentsAlthough we think this situation is unlikely, if one or more such takeovers were to occur they could adversely affect our business. We cannot be assured that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation.”State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations.Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file and receive approval of rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations.From time to time we receive inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative demands or subpoenas. We cooperate with all such inquiries and we have responded to or are currently responding to inquiries from multiple governmental agencies. Also, regulators and courts have been dealing with issues arising from foreclosures and related processes and documentation. Various governmental entities are studying the title insurance product, market, pricing, and business practices, and potential regulatory and legislative changes, which may materially affect our business and operations. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which may require us to pay fines or claims or take other actions.Because we are dependent upon California for approximately 17.2 percent of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California.California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2012, California-based premiums accounted for 36.9% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 0.9% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 17.2% of our total title insurance premiums for 2012. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If the rating agencies downgrade our Company, our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer.Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody’s, A.M. Best, and Demotech. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by rating agencies and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Our management has articulated a willingness to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt.Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operating segments. Accordingly, we have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline.We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash.We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock.Our title insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with 16Table of Contentsthese laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2013, our title insurers may pay dividends or make distributions to us without prior regulatory approval of approximately $255.4 million.The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer’s actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer’s ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators.We could have conflicts with Fidelity National Information Services ("FIS"), and our chairman of our Board of Directors and other officers and directors could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with FIS.FIS and FNF were under common ownership by another publicly traded company, also called Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (“Old FNF”) until October 2006, when Old FNF distributed all of its FNF shares to the stockholders of Old FNF (the "2006 Distribution"). In November 2006, Old FNF then merged into FIS.Conflicts may arise between us and FIS as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. Certain of our executive officers and directors could be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such agreements and other matters due to their relationships with FIS.Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FIS stock and stock options. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FIS or any of its subsidiaries.William P. Foley, II, is the executive chairman of our Board of Directors and the Vice Chairman of the Board of FIS. As a result of these roles, he has obligations to us and FIS and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and FIS’s respective businesses. In addition, Mr. Foley may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to either of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Finally, FIS and FNF have several other overlapping directors and officers.Matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and FIS include, among other things:•our ongoing and future relationships with FIS, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the information technology support services, administrative corporate support and cost sharing services, indemnification, and other matters; and•the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to provide to FIS or that it has agreed to provide to us.We seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with FIS and through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with FIS, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party.The loss of key personnel could negatively affect our financial results and impair our operating abilities. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain key members of our senior management team and officers. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our operating results and in turn the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Although we have employment agreements with many of our officers, there can be no assurance that the entire term of the employment agreement will be served or that the employment agreement will be renewed upon expiration. Our operations could be adversely affected by the results of our acquired restaurant companies due to the risks inherent in that segment. Our acquired restaurant companies face certain risks that could negatively impact their results of operations. These risks include such things as the risks of continued unfavorable economic conditions, changing consumer preferences, unfavorable publicity, increasing food and labor costs, effectiveness of marketing campaigns, and the ability to compete successfully with other restaurants. In addition, risks related to supply chain, food quality, and protecting guests' personal information are inherent to the restaurant business. These companies are also subject to compliance with extensive government laws and regulations related to the manufacture, preparation, and sale of food and alcohol. If our restaurant companies are not able to respond effectively to one or more of these risks, it could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of those businesses.Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by risks affecting Remy. Any material adverse change in Remy's financial position or results of operations could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Remy's results are affected by factors such as general economic conditions, levels of demand for new 17Table of Contentslight and commercial vehicles, fuel prices, the product life of new and replacement parts, product liability and warranty claims related to its products, litigation and other disputes, and changes in the cost and availability of raw materials and components utilized in the manufacturing of its products. In addition, Remy's results also are influenced by technological innovations, relationships with its key customers and their success in the marketplace, and Remy's ability to compete successfully with its competitors. If Remy is not able to respond effectively to one or more of these risks, it could have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, which, in turn, would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.Given the international reach of its business, Remy is also subject to risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including foreign currency fluctuations, local political climates, export and import restrictions, and compliance with government laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Any failure to manage these risks and requirements could harm Remy's business, financial condition or results of operations, which would similarly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.