Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. General If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. Both the volume and the 16 Table of Contents average price of residential real estate transactions have recently experienced declines in many parts of the country, and these trends appear likely to continue. The volume of refinancing transactions in particular and mortgage originations in general declined in the 2006 through 2008 period from 2005 and prior levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in some of our businesses. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. In 2008, the sharply rising mortgage delinquency and default rates caused negative operating results at a number of banks and financial institutions and, as a result, have significantly reduced the level of lending activity. The current Mortgage Bankers Association forecast is for approximately $2.0 trillion of mortgage originations in 2009 compared to $1.7 trillion in 2008. In December 2008 and continuing into February 2009, our open order volumes for refinancing transactions have increased, reflecting lower interest rates. However, it is too soon to tell if the portion of these open orders that actually closes will be consistent with our closing percentages in prior periods or how long this increased activity will last. Several banks have failed in recent months and others may fail in the short to medium term, further reducing the capacity of the mortgage industry to make loans. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. We have recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and an economic downturn could cause these balances to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill aggregated approximately $1,581.7 million, or 18.9% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2008. Current accounting rules require that goodwill be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance indicating the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. However, if the current worldwide economic downturn continues, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization and the impact of the current economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment of goodwill in future periods. If the recent worsening of economic and credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio is exposed to economic and financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. Our investment policy is designed to maximize total return through investment income and capital appreciation consistent with moderate risk of principal, while providing adequate liquidity and complying with internal and regulatory guidelines. To achieve this objective, our marketable debt investments are primarily investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. We also make investments in certain equity securities in order to take advantage of perceived value and for strategic purposes. Recent economic and credit market conditions have adversely affected the ability of some issuers of investment securities to repay their obligations and have affected and may further affect the values of investment securities. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents If we observe changes in the rate of title insurance claims, it may be necessary for us to record additional charges to our claim loss reserve. This may result in lower net earnings and the potential for earnings volatility. At each quarter end, our recorded reserve for claim losses is initially the result of taking the prior recorded reserve for claim losses, adding the current provision to that balance and subtracting actual paid claims from that balance, resulting in an amount that management then compares to the actuarial point estimate provided in the actuarial calculation. Due to the uncertainty and judgment used by both management and our actuary, our ultimate liability may be greater or less than our current reserves and/or our actuary’s calculation. If the recorded amount is within a reasonable range of the actuary’s point estimate, but not at the point estimate, management assesses other factors in order to be comfortable with the position of the recorded reserve within a range. These factors, which are more qualitative than quantitative, can change from period to period and include items such as current trends in the real estate industry (which management can assess, but for which there is a time lag in the development of the data used by our actuary), the stratification of certain claims (large vs. small), improvements in our claims management processes, and other cost saving measures. If the recorded amount is not within a reasonable range of the actuary’s point estimate, we would record a charge and reassess the long-term provision on a go forward basis. As a result of adverse claim loss development on prior policy years, we recorded charges in 2008 and 2007 totaling $261.6 million ($157.0 million net of income taxes) and $217.2 million ($159.5 million net of income taxes) in our provision for claim losses. These charges were recorded in addition to our provision for claim losses of 8.5% and 7.5%, respectively. These charges brought our reserve position to a level that represents our best estimate of our ultimate liability. We will reassess the provision to be recorded in future periods consistent with this methodology and can make no assurance that we will not need to record charges in the future to increase reserves in respect of prior periods. Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede or impose burdensome conditions on actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: • licensing requirements; • trade and marketing practices; • accounting and financing practices; • capital and surplus requirements; • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; • investment practices; • rate schedules; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing reserves; and • regulation of reinsurance. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. We 18 Table of Contents cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Business — Regulation.” State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in the various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file and receive approval of rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. See also the risk factor below relating to regulatory conditions in California. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We receive inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies from time to time about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative subpoenas. We attempt to cooperate with all such inquiries. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which require us to pay money or take other actions. These fines may be significant and actions we are required to take may adversely affect our business. Because we are dependent upon California for approximately 18 percent of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2008, California-based premiums accounted for 32% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 8% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 17.6% of our total title insurance premiums for 2008. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In January 2007, the State of California adopted regulations that would have significant effects on the title insurance industry in California. The Company, as well as others, has been engaged in discussions with the California Department of Insurance (the “CDI”) regarding possible industry reforms that may result in the CDI’s decision to modify or repeal the regulations prior to their implementation. On June 17, 2008, the CDI filed with the Office of Administrative Law revised title insurance regulations containing substantial changes to the existing regulations. Hearings on revised regulations were held in August. We, through the California Land Title Association, continue to work with the CDI to refine certain aspects of the proposed regulations, including the statistical reporting provisions. If the rating agencies downgrade our Company, our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, A.M. Best, and Demotech. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. On December 23, 2008, Fitch downgraded FNF’s financial strength ratings from A- to BBB. The following announcements have been made by the rating agencies regarding the current status of our ratings: S&P — CreditWatch with negative implications, Fitch — Rating Watch Negative, A.M. Best — under review with negative implications, and Moody’s — stable. In addition, Fitch has announced that the ratings of the underwriters that we recently acquired from LFG are on Rating Watch Evolving. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by rating agencies and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our rate of growth could be adversely affected if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates. As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and, assuming we find them, to finance such acquisitions on acceptable terms. We have historically used, and in the future may continue to use, a variety of sources of financing to fund our acquisitions, including cash from operations, debt and equity. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of risks, including the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and variability in our stock price. These factors may inhibit our ability to pursue attractive acquisition targets. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Our management has articulated a willingness to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt. Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operating segments. Accordingly, we have in the past year acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth and successfully integrating new businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have historically achieved growth through a combination of developing new products and services, increasing our market share for existing products, and making acquisitions. Part of our strategy is to pursue opportunities to diversify and expand our operations by acquiring or making investments in other companies. The success of each acquisition will depend upon: • our ability to integrate the acquired business’ operations, products and personnel; • our ability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • our ability to expand our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; • our ability to maintain the customers and goodwill of the acquired business; and • any unexpected costs or unforeseen liabilities associated with the acquired business. The integration of two previously separate companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect each company’s ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. In addition, any successful integration of companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day businesses. Our recent acquisition of subsidiaries of LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc. (“LFG”) may expose us to certain risks. On December 22, 2008, we completed the acquisition of LFG’s two principal title insurance underwriters, Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation and Commonwealth Land Title Insurance Company, as well as United Capital Title Insurance Company (collectively, the “LFG Subsidiaries”). 20 Table of Contents The LFG Subsidiaries have experienced financial difficulties in recent quarters. The acquisition may have unforeseen negative effects on our company, including potentially if there are significant undisclosed liabilities that we did not discover in our due diligence review or otherwise prior to closing. Further, we face challenges in integrating the LFG Subsidiaries. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of the acquired business successfully or achieve the level of cost reductions we hope to achieve, and the process of integrating this acquisition may disrupt our business and divert our resources. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. Our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Our title insurance and specialty insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2009, our title insurers will be able to pay dividends or make distributions to us without prior regulatory approval of approximately $214.7 million. The maximum dividend permitted by law is not necessarily indicative of an insurer’s actual ability to pay dividends, which may be constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of dividends on surplus, which could affect an insurer’s ratings or competitive position, the amount of premiums that can be written and the ability to pay future dividends. Further, depending on business and regulatory conditions, we may in the future need to retain cash in our underwriters or even contribute cash to one or more of them in order to maintain their ratings or their statutory capital position. Such a requirement could be the result of investment losses, reserve charges, adverse operating conditions in the current economic environment or changes in interpretation of statutory accounting requirements by regulators. Further, the LFG Underwriters recently acquired by us could have unexpected liabilities or asset exposures that only become apparent over time which adversely affect their surplus. Our specialty insurance segment is a smaller operation with respect to which we have announced that we are considering our strategic alternatives and, as a result, it is unlikely to be a significant source of dividends to us in 2009. We could have conflicts with FIS and LPS, and our chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with FIS or LPS. FIS and we were under common ownership by another publicly traded company, also called Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (“Old FNF”) until October 2006, when Old FNF distributed all of its FNF shares to the stockholders of Old FNF. In November 2006, Old FNF then merged into FIS. On July 2, 2008, FIS completed the spin-off of its former Lender Processing Services operating segment into a separate publicly traded company, referred to as LPS, by distributing all of its shares of LPS to FIS shareholders through a stock dividend. Conflicts may arise between FIS and us, or LPS and us, in each case as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. Among other things, following the merger between Old FNF and FIS, FIS and we have remained parties to a variety of agreements, some of which were assigned to LPS by FIS in the spin-off. We also became a party to a variety of agreements with FIS and LPS in connection with the spin-off, and we may enter into further agreements with FIS or LPS. Certain of our executive officers and directors could be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such agreements and other matters due to their relationships with FIS or LPS. 21 Table of Contents Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FIS and LPS stock and stock options. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FIS or LPS or any of their respective subsidiaries. William P. Foley, II, is the chairman of our board of directors, the executive chairman of the board of FIS and the chairman of the board of LPS. As a result of his roles, he has obligations to us, FIS and LPS and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and FIS’s or LPS’s respective businesses. In addition, Mr. Foley may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to each of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Finally, FIS, LPS and we have overlapping directors and officers. Matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and FIS or LPS include, among other things: • our ongoing and future relationships with FIS or LPS, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits, indemnification, claims administration and handling, and other matters; and • the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to provide to FIS or LPS or that it has agreed to provide to us. We seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with FIS and LPS and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. However, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with FIS and LPS, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may prevent us from receiving the benefit of certain corporate opportunities. Because FIS may engage in some of the same activities in which we engage, there is a risk that we may be in direct competition with FIS over business activities and corporate opportunities. To address these potential conflicts, a corporate opportunity policy is incorporated into our certificate of incorporation. Among other things, this policy provides that FIS has no duty not to compete with us. The policy also limits the situations in which one of our directors or officers, if also a director or officer of FIS, must offer corporate opportunities to us of which such individual becomes aware. These provisions may limit the corporate opportunities of which we are made aware or which are offered to us. The markets in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate are highly competitive. Some of our potential competitors have greater resources than we do, and we may face competition from new entrants with alternative products or services. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. According to Demotech, the top five title insurance companies (which included FNF and LFG) accounted for 92.8% of net premiums collected in 2007. Over 40 independent title insurance companies accounted for the remaining 7.2% of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we conduct our title insurance business. In our principal markets, competitors include other major title underwriters such as The First American Corporation, Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corporation, as well as numerous smaller title insurance companies, underwritten title companies, and independent agency operations at the regional and local level. These smaller companies may expand into other markets in which we compete. Also, the removal of regulatory barriers might result in new competitors entering the title insurance business, and those new competitors may include companies that have greater financial resources than we do and possess other competitive advantages. Competition among the major title insurance companies, expansion by smaller regional companies and any new entrants with alternative products could affect our business operations and financial condition. From time to time, we adjust the title insurance rates we charge in a particular state as a result of competitive conditions in that state. Changes in price could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, although its 22 Table of Contents ultimate impact will depend, among other things, on the volume and mix of our future business in that state and within various portions of the state. The markets for our other products and services are also very competitive, and we expect the markets for all of our products and services to remain highly competitive. Our failure to remain competitive may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our 1031 exchange business may be adversely affected by proposed regulations under Section 468B and Section 7872 of the Internal Revenue Code. The IRS has proposed regulations under Section 468B regarding the taxation of the income earned on escrow accounts, trusts and other funds used during deferred exchanges of like-kind property and under Section 7872 regarding below-market loans to facilitators of these exchanges. The proposed regulations affect taxpayers that engage in like-kind exchanges and escrow holders, trustees, qualified intermediaries, and others that hold funds during like-kind exchanges. We currently do not know what effect these changes will have on our 1031 exchange businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 