Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. General Adverse developments arising from a pending investigation could materially adversely affect our results of operations On February 16, 2007, Chicago Title Insurance Company (“CTIC”) received a letter from the United States Attorney’s Office in the Southern District of Texas advising the company that it is the target of a federal grand jury investigation in Houston, Texas concerning possible violations of law involving loans made by three banks in Texas. CTIC believes that the investigation relates to certain mortgage loan transactions that were closed in 2000 and 2001 by a branch office of CTIC located in the Houston Metropolitan area. As previously disclosed, in February 2005, without any admission of fault or liability, CTIC entered into a Stipulation and Consent Order (“Order”) with the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and certain other regulators including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Texas Department of Insurance in connection with their investigations of matters relating to these loans. Under the Order, the Company agreed to, among other things, pay a civil money penalty, provide training to current and prospective employees, and audit branch offices at least every two years to ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations. In addition, without admitting any liability, CTIC concurrently 14 Table of Contents entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) with respect to any violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act in connection with these loans following HUD’s investigation of the matter. The U.S. Attorney’s Office now is investigating possible violations of the bank fraud laws in connection with the same loans. CTIC is fully cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s investigation. To date, we are not aware of any violations of the bank fraud laws on the part of CTIC or any of its employees. CTIC has agreed to launch an internal investigation, and to report thereon to the U.S. Attorney’s office. In the event that CTIC were to be indicted, the consequences to us could materially adversely affect our business. If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. The levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. Both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have recently experienced declines in many parts of the country, and these trends appear likely to continue. Further, interest rates have risen from record low levels in 2003, resulting in reductions in the level of mortgage refinancings and total mortgage originations in 2004 and again in 2005 and 2006. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. Declines in the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales are likely to adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association currently projects residential mortgage production in 2007 to be $2.39 trillion, which would represent a 5.0% decline relative to 2006. The MBA further projects that the 5.0% decrease will result from purchase transactions declining from $1.40 billion in 2006 to $1.33 billion in 2007 or 4.8% and refinance transactions dropping from $1.11 billion in 2005 to $1.06 billion in 2006, or 5.2%. Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede, or impose burdensome conditions on, actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: • licensing requirements; • trade and marketing practices; • accounting and financing practices; • capital and surplus requirements; • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; • investment practices; • rate schedules; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing reserves; and • regulation of reinsurance. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on 15 Table of Contents our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Business — Regulation.” State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in the various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which our title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In January 2007, the California Insurance Commissioner submitted to the California Office of Administrative Law (“OAL”) proposed regulations that would have significant effects on the title insurance industry in California. Among other things, these regulations would set “maximum” rates, effective as of October 1, 2009, for title and escrow using industry data to be reported through the statistical plan described below and published by the California Department of Insurance (the “CDI”). In addition, the new regulations would establish an interim reduction of all title and escrow rates effective October 1, 2009 if the CDI is unable to publish the data necessary for the calculation of the maximum rates by August 1, 2009. These interim rate reductions are intended to roll rates back so that in effect, premiums are charged on the basis of real property values from the year 2000. Title insurers would be required to reduce their rates to a level below their 2000 rates, with the amount of the reduction determined by a formula adjusting for real estate appreciation and inflation. Although FNF is continuing to evaluate the effect that these regulations would have on its business and its financial results, FNF is concerned that the reduced rates and maximum rate caps set by the California Regulations will significantly reduce the title and escrow rates that are charged in California, while precluding title insurers from seeking relief from those reduced or maximum rates. In addition, the proposed California regulations contemplate the creation of a detailed statistical plan, requiring data to be collected by each title insurer, underwritten title company, and controlled escrow company at the individual transaction level beginning on January 1, 2008. The statistical plan would also require that all expenses be allocated among 18 “activities,” such as title search/examination, preliminary report issuance, general management, customer support, sales, recording of documents, and escrow document production. The data collected under the statistical plan would be submitted annually to the CDI beginning on April 30, 2009. Compliance with the data collection and reporting requirements of the California Regulations, if adopted, would necessitate a significant revision and augmentation of our existing data collection and accounting systems before January 1, 2008, and would require a significant expenditure to comply with the April 30, 2009 deadline. The proposed required rate reductions and maximum rates would significantly reduce the title insurance rates that our subsidiaries can charge, and would likely have a significant negative impact on our California revenues. In addition, the increased cost of compliance with the statistical data collection and reporting requirements would negatively impact our cost of doing business in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry, including for us. On February 21, 2007, the OAL disapproved the proposed California Regulations and requested certain clarifications from the CDI. On February 22, 2007, the CDI announced its intention to move forward expeditiously to satisfy the OAL’s request in consultation with consumer groups and the title industry and resubmit the regulations for approval. In addition, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation (the “OIR”) has recently released three studies of the title insurance industry which purport to demonstrate that title insurance rates in Florida are too high and that the Florida title insurance industry is overwhelmingly dominated by five firms, which includes us. The studies recommend tying premium rates to loss ratios thereby making the rates a reflection of the actual risks born by the insurer. The OIR is presently developing a rule to establish and govern the annual collection of statistical data and has said that it will use the information gathered to begin a full review of the title insurance rates charged in Florida. The Washington Insurance Commissioner has issued a report concluding that the title insurance industry has engaged in illegal referral fees. The Commissioner has appointed a panel to recommend title industry reforms. In 2006, we and our subsidiaries settled all allegations of wrongdoing arising from a wide-ranging review of the title insurance industry by the New York State Attorney General (the “NYAG”). Under the terms of the 16 Table of Contents settlement, we paid a $2 million fine and were required to reduce premiums by 15% on owner’s policies under $1 million. Rate hearings will be conducted by the New York State Insurance Department (the “NYSID”) in 2007 where all rates will be considered industry-wide. The settlement clarifies practices considered wrongful under New York law by the NYAG and the NYSID, and we have agreed not to engage in those practices. We will take steps to assure that consumers are aware of the filed rates for premiums on title insurance products and that the products are correctly rated. The settlement also resolves all issues raised by the market conduct investigation of us and our subsidiaries by the NYSID except the issues of rating errors found by the NYSID. As part of the settlement, we and our subsidiaries denied any wrongdoing. Neither the fines nor the 15% rate reduction are expected to have a material impact on our earnings. We cooperated fully with the NYAG and NYSID inquiries into these matters and will continue to cooperate with the NYSID. Further, in 2006, U.S. Representative Oxley, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, asked the Government Accountability Office (the GAO) to investigate the title insurance industry. Representative Oxley stated that the Committee is concerned about payments that certain title insurers have made to developers, lenders and real estate agents for referrals of title insurance business. Representative Oxley asked the GAO to examine, among other things, the foregoing relationships and the levels of pricing and competition in the title insurance industry. A congressional hearing was held regarding title insurance practices on April 27, 2006. The GAO’s report is expected in the spring of 2007. We are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether it will adversely affect our business or results of operations. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We get inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies from time to time about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative subpoenas. We attempt to cooperate with all such inquiries. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which require us to pay money or take other actions. These fines may be significant and actions we are required to take may adversely affect our business. For a discussion of certain pending items, see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Because we are dependent upon California for approximately 18 percent of our title insurance premiums, our business may be adversely affected by regulatory conditions in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry and, in 2006, California-based premiums accounted for 38.7% of premiums earned by our direct operations and 2.1% of our agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 18% of our total title insurance premiums for 2006. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to our operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the rating agencies downgrade our company our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, A.M. Best, Demotech and LACE. Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. In connection with the announcement of the Asset Contribution and the 2006 Distribution, A.M. Best revised their outlook on our ratings to positive from stable and Moody’s and Fitch affirmed financial strength ratings of A3 and A-, respectively. After the completion of the 2006 Distribution, Fitch upgraded its financial strength rating to A. Our ratings are subject to continued periodic review by those entities and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our rate of growth could be adversely affected if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates. As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and, assuming we find them, to finance such acquisitions on acceptable terms. We have historically used, and in the future may continue to use, a variety of sources of financing to fund our acquisitions, including cash from operations, debt and equity. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of risks, including the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and variability in our stock price. These factors may inhibit our ability to pursue attractive acquisition targets. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Our management has articulated an ongoing strategy to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay our debt. Our management has stated that we may make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operating segments. Accordingly, we have in the past year acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth and successfully integrating new businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have historically achieved growth through a combination of developing new products and services and increasing our market share for existing products and acquisitions. Part of our strategy is to pursue opportunities to diversify and expand our operations by acquiring or making investments in other companies. The success of each acquisition will depend upon: • our ability to integrate the acquired business’ operations, products and personnel; • our ability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • our ability to expand our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; • our ability to maintain the customers and goodwill of the acquired business; and • any unexpected costs or unforeseen liabilities associated with the acquired business. The integration of two previously separate companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect each company’s ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination. In addition, any successful integration of companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day businesses. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding debt and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. Our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Our title insurance and specialty insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2007, our title insurers will be able to pay dividends or make distributions to us without prior regulatory approval of approximately $264.8 million. Our specialty insurance segment is a smaller, growing operation and, as a result, it will likely be difficult under current circumstances for it to be a significant source of cash to us. We could have conflicts with FIS, and our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors is also the chairman of the board of directors of FIS. Conflicts may arise between FIS and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. We will seek to manage any potential conflicts through our agreements with FIS and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. However, there can be no assurances that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FIS stock and stock options. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FIS. William P. Foley, II, is our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors and the executive chairman of the board of FIS. As a result of his roles, he has obligations to us and to FIS and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and FIS’s respective businesses. In addition, Mr. Foley may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to either of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Finally, five of our directors, including Mr. Foley, are also directors of FIS. If the 2006 Distribution does not constitute a tax free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code or the Old FNF-FIS merger does not constitute a tax free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the code, then we may have to indemnify FIS or Old FNF for payment of taxes and tax-related losses. Under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to enter into with Old FNF and FIS as a condition to the closing under the SEDA, we are required to indemnify Old FNF and FIS for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) if the 2006 Distribution were determined to be taxable either to Old FNF or the Old FNF stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination were the result of a breach by FIS of its agreement not to take any action within its control that would cause the 2006 Distribution to be taxable or the result of an acquisition of FIS stock within the control of FIS or an FIS subsidiary. Old FNF estimated that the amount of our indemnification obligation for the amount of tax on Old FNF’s transfer of our stock in the distribution could be in the range of $150 million and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of our stock at the time of the 2006 Distribution. In addition, we are required under the tax disaffiliation agreement to indemnify Old FNF and FIS for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) in the event the Old FNF-FIS merger were determined to be taxable. Old FNF estimated that the amount of our indemnification obligation for the amount of tax on Old FNF’s transfer and retirement of its FIS stock in the merger could be in the range of $1 billion and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of FIS’s stock at the time of the merger. FNF may be affected by significant restrictions following the merger with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax free status of the distribution or the merger. Even if the 2006 Distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution of our common stock to the Old FNF stockholders may not qualify as tax free to Old FNF (or its successor upon the consummation of the merger, FIS) under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50% or more of our stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the 2006 Distribution. 19 Table of Contents In order to help preserve the tax free treatment of the 2006 Distribution, we have agreed not to take certain actions without first obtaining the consent of certain officers of FIS or obtaining an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that such transaction will not cause the 2006 Distribution to be taxable under Section 355(e). In general, such actions would include, for a period of two years after the 2006 Distribution, engaging in certain transactions involving (i) the acquisition of our stock or (ii) the issuance of shares of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may prevent us from receiving the benefit of certain corporate opportunities. Because FIS may engage in some of the same activities in which we engage, there is a risk that we may be in direct competition with FIS over business activities and corporate opportunities. To address these potential conflicts, a corporate opportunity policy is incorporated into our certificate of incorporation. Among other things, this policy provides that FIS has no duty not to compete with us. The policy also limits the situations in which one of our directors or officers, if also a director or officer of FIS, must offer corporate opportunities to us of which such individual becomes aware. These provisions may limit the corporate opportunities of which we are made aware or which are offered to us. The markets in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, and we may face competition from new entrants with alternative products or services. The title insurance industry is highly competitive. According to Demotech, the top five title insurance companies accounted for 91.8% of net premiums collected in 2005. Over 40 independent title insurance companies accounted for the remaining 8.2% of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we conduct our title insurance business. In our principal markets, competitors include other major title underwriters such as The First American Corporation, LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc., Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corporation, as well as numerous smaller title insurance companies, underwritten title companies, and independent agency operations at the regional and local level. These smaller companies may expand into other markets in which we compete. Also, the removal of regulatory barriers might result in new competitors entering the title insurance business, and those new competitors may include companies that have greater financial resources than we do and possess other competitive advantages. Competition among the major title insurance companies, expansion by smaller regional companies and any new entrants with alternative products could affect our business operations and financial condition. From time to time, we adjust the title insurance rates we charge in a particular state as a result of competitive conditions in that state. For example, in response to recent rate reductions by certain of our title insurance competitors, in 2006 we adjusted certain title insurance premium and escrow fees in California for refinancings and sale transactions. This change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, although its ultimate impact will depend, among other things, on the volume and mix of our future business in that state and within various portions of the state. The markets for our other products and services are also very competitive, and we expect the markets for all of our products and services to remain highly competitive. Our failure to remain competitive may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 