Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “seeks,” “projects,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we set forth this statement in order to comply with such safe harbor provisions. You should note that our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or when made and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions, and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties, and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company has a limited operating history, has a history of losses and may incur losses in the foreseeable future. The Company does not have a significant operating history upon which potential investors may assess future performance. PVGI acquired its first two veterinary hospitals in September 2004 and acquired additional veterinary hospitals throughout 2005, 2006 and 2007. The Company also acquired a veterinary hospital in 2008. The Company has only incurred losses to date. The Company is continuing to develop its operational infrastructure and faces additional risks similar to those of other businesses with limited operating history. The Company’s prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays, problems and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business. Operating results may also vary depending on a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control, including: o changes in the Company’s pricing policies or those of its competitors; o the hiring and retention of key personnel; o fluctuation in costs related to acquisitions of businesses; o wage and cost pressures; o availability of facilities that are suitable for acquisition; o viability of the hub and spoke model; o hiring and retention of veterinarians; o increased competition and pricing pressure; o seasonal and general economic factors, including a recession or economic slowdown; and o level of personal discretionary spending. 8 Table of Contents The Company has substantial indebtedness which requires a significant amount of cash to service. The Company may not be able to generate or raise sufficient cash to meet its debt service obligations, and these obligations will reduce the amount of cash available to operate and expand its business. The Company has, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt, including debt incurred as a result of financing its acquisitions and the 12% Senior Notes described below (See “Risk Factors - The Company may not be able to pay its obligations with respect to its 12% Senior Notes upon maturity, prepayment or redemption”). The Company’s substantial amount of debt requires it to dedicate a significant portion of its cash flow from operations to pay down its indebtedness and related interest, thereby reducing the funds available to use for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Because interest on the 12% Senior Notes is payable by increasing the principal amount of the 12% Senior Notes, the Company’s interest payments on the 12% Senior Notes will not affect cash flow. However, interest on the 12% Senior Notes will increase the Company’s interest expense and thereby impact net earnings (loss). The Company’s ability to make payments on its debt, pay its expenses and fund acquisitions will depend upon its ability to generate cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place the Company at risk of default under its debt agreements which could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the Company’s debt obligations and could prevent the Company from paying fixed costs or expanding its business as planned. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. The Company’s business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, the Company’s strategy to increase operating efficiencies may not be realized and future borrowings may not be available to it in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to service its debt or to fund its other liquidity needs. The Company’s debt comes due in various amounts between 2010 and 2013. In order to meet the Company’s debt obligations, the Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its debt. The Company may not be able to refinance any of its debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company may not be able to pay its obligations with respect to its 12% Senior Notes upon maturity, prepayment or redemption. In the first quarter of 2009, the Company issued an aggregate original principal amount of $6,500,000 of 12% Senior Notes. The terms of the 12% Senior Notes require the Company to pay a premium of 184% of the original principal amount of the Senior Notes (in addition to the repayment of the then-outstanding principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest) (i) upon any repayment of the Senior Notes at maturity, (ii) if accelerated upon the occurrence of an “event of default” (as defined in the Senior Notes), or (iii) upon any redemption or prepayment of the Senior Notes prior to maturity. Accordingly, the amount due upon maturity, prepayment or redemption of the $6,500,000 principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding as of the date of this report will be approximately $18,460,000 after giving effect to such premium, but before giving effect to additional Senior Notes issued in the future as payment-in-kind in connection with the interest on the outstanding Senior Notes. The Company does not currently have the resources to pay the full redemption price in cash, and anticipates that it would need to refinance such debt prior to its maturity or redemption. The Company has not established a sinking fund for payment of its obligations under the Notes, nor does it anticipate doing so. The Company’s debt instruments may adversely affect its ability to run its business. The Company’s substantial amount of debt, as well as the guarantees of its subsidiaries and the security interests in its assets and those of its subsidiaries, could impair its ability to operate its business effectively and may limit its ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, its credit agreements contain certain restrictions that: o limit its ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; o limit its ability to dispose of its assets, create liens on its assets or to extend credit; o make the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; 9 Table of Contents o limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business or industry; o place it at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors with less debt; and o restrict its ability to pay dividends, repurchase or redeem its capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity. The terms of the Company’s credit agreements allow it, under specified conditions, to incur further indebtedness, which would heighten the foregoing risks. If compliance with its debt obligations materially hinders its ability to operate its business and adapt to changing industry conditions, the Company may lose market share, its revenue may decline and its operating results may suffer. The issuance of the 12% Senior Notes and related warrants will result in a significant charge to earnings and impact net earnings (loss) going forward. Although the Company has not yet finalized the accounting treatment for the issuance of the 12% Senior Notes and related warrants, it expects a substantial charge to its earnings to be recorded to reflect the intrinsic value of the warrants. In addition, interest paid on the 12% Senior Notes by the increase of the principal amount of the 12% Senior Notes will increase the Company’s interest expense going forward. Furthermore, a number of the holders of outstanding “seller notes” agreed to a “standstill” provision contemplated by the loan documentation in exchange for warrants and/or a higher interest rate on their notes, which will also increase the Company’s interest expense going forward. Galen and Camden, participants in the Company’s offering of its 12% Senior Notes, may have the ability to significantly influence the business and affairs of the Company. A representative of Camden and a representative of Galen serve on the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, Camden and Galen currently hold a significant principal amount of the issued and outstanding 12% Senior Notes, and accordingly, control the ability of the Company to obtain consents, waivers and amendments with respect to the loan documentation and covenants contained therein. In addition, Camden and Galen are each substantial shareholders in the Company. The Company may be unable to effectively execute its growth strategy which could cause its margins and profitability to decline. Even if the Company is able to effectively execute its growth strategy, the growth of the business may put a strain on the business, and the Company may not achieve desired economies of scale. The success of the Company depends in part on its ability to build on its position as a leading animal healthcare services company through selective acquisitions of established animal hospitals and internal growth initiatives. If the Company cannot implement or effectively execute this strategy, its results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company intends, as part of its growth strategies, to acquire additional veterinary hospitals. The Company may not be able to attract or compete successfully for prospective acquisition candidates or achieve sufficient “cluster” hospitals in any market it may target in order to achieve targeted efficiencies. In addition, acquisitions may take longer than anticipated or may not be cost effective. Results of operations may be materially adversely affected if the Company is unable to manage its growth effectively, which may increase costs of operations and hinder the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy. The Company’s internal revenue growth from new services and pet pharmaceuticals as well as its expected cost savings may not develop as anticipated, and reduction in its expected rate of internal growth may cause the Company’s revenue and margins to decrease from management’s expectations. Expected growth may place a significant strain on management and operational systems and resources. If the Company’s business grows as expected, the Company will need to improve and enhance its overall financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and expand, train and manage its workforce. The Company will also need to increase the capacity of current systems to meet additional demands. 10 Table of Contents Even if the Company effectively implements its growth strategy, it may not achieve the presently anticipated internal growth and the growth may be below the Company’s historical rates. Any reductions in the rate of the Company’s internal growth may cause its revenues and margins to decrease. Investors should not assume that the Company’s historical growth rates and margins are reliable indicators of results in future periods. The Company’s failure to satisfy covenants in its debt instruments will cause a default under those instruments. In addition to imposing restrictions on the Company’s business and operations, some of its debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and other tests. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit the Company’s lenders and other debtholders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders and other debtholders would have the options to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under these instruments. If the Company is unable the repay debt to its senior lenders, these lenders and debtholders could proceed against its assets. Incurring substantial amounts of debt could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Leverage. The Company has and may continue to utilize a leveraged capital structure to, among other things, fund its operations. The Company has issued promissory notes and other forms of debt in connection with past acquisitions and may likely do so in the future. As a result, the Company is, and in the future may be, subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including, (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, (ii) the risk that existing debt (which will not have been fully amortized at maturity) will not be able to be refinanced or that the terms of such refinancings will not be as favorable to the Company, and (iii) the risk that necessary capital expenditures will not be able to be financed on favorable terms or at all. Risk of Rising Interest Rates. While currently all of the Company’s debt bears interest at a fixed rate, the Company may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance its debt at higher rates. By its very nature, a variable interest rate will move up or down based on changes in the economy and other factors, all of which are beyond the control of the Company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such rates will not rise significantly and, consequently, that the Company would be required to pay more interest than is anticipated. A significant increase in market interest rates could jeopardize the Company’s ability to pay required debt service on loans and could possibly result in a default under the loan and/or foreclosure. Limitations on Debt. The Company’s current Certificate of Incorporation does not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness the Company may incur. Accordingly, the Company could become highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could increase the risk of default on the Company’s indebtedness. The Company’s business strategy includes growth through acquisitions, which involve special risks that could increase expenses, and divert the time and attention of management. Difficulties integrating new acquisitions may impose substantial costs and disrupt the Company’s business, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. As part of its business strategy, the Company has in the past acquired veterinary hospitals. The Company expects to continue to acquire animal hospitals. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: o diversion of management’s attention from the Company’s existing business; o integration of acquired veterinary hospitals and employees into the Company’s existing business, including coordination of geographically dispersed operations, which can take longer and be more complex than initially expected; o dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel, including specialists; 11 Table of Contents o loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination of those employees; o dilution of then-current stockholders’ percentage ownership; o dilution of earnings if synergies with the acquired veterinary hospitals are not achieved; o inability to generate sufficient revenue and profitability to offset acquisition or investment costs; o assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, including costly litigation related to alleged liabilities of the acquired businesses; and o risk of impairment charges related to potential write-down of acquired assets in future acquisitions. Acquisitions of veterinary hospitals are inherently risky and create many challenges. Future acquisitions may not achieve the desired objectives. If the Company fails to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects may be seriously harmed. The Company may be unsuccessful in the integration of the acquired businesses that are new to its operations. The process of integration may require a disproportionate amount of the time and attention of management, which may distract management’s attention from its day-to-day duties. During these periods, there may be less attention directed to marketing efforts or staffing issues, which could affect the Company’s revenue and expenses. In addition, any interruption or deterioration in service resulting from an acquisition may result in a customer’s decision to stop using the Company. Any difficulties in the integration process could result in increased expense, loss of customers and a decline in profitability or an increase in exiting losses. The Company has experienced delays and increased costs in integrating acquired businesses. The Company also could experience delays in converting the systems of acquired businesses into its systems, which could result in increased staff and payroll expense as well as delays in reporting its results, both for a particular region and on a consolidated basis. Further, the legal and business environment prevalent in new territories and with respect to new businesses may pose risks that the Company does not anticipate and could adversely impact its ability to integrate newly acquired operations. For all of these reasons, the Company’s historical record in integrating acquired businesses is not a reliable indicator of its ability to do so in the future. If it is not successful in timely and cost-effectively integrating future acquisitions, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The termination or failure to renew a lease or sublease for a veterinary hospital facility would require the Company to relocate its hospital to a different facility and make substantial capital expenditures, which could disrupt the Company’s business and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The majority of the Company’s veterinary hospital facilities are leased or subleased. Certain of these leases or subleases are on a month-to-month basis or do not include a renewal option. The Company may be unable to renew these leases or subleases upon termination or expiration on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. Higher lease costs could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Failure by a lessor or sublessor to renew an existing lease or sublease could require the Company to relocate to a different facility which could disrupt the Company’s business and require the Company to make significant capital expenditures for leasehold improvements which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have recently been served with a lawsuit stemming from the acquisition of a veterinary hospital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We have been served in a lawsuit stemming from our December 31, 2006 acquisition of Vetsurg, Inc., a veterinary hospital located in Southern California. The plaintiffs are the former owners of the hospital and have alleged various causes of action under contract and tort. Plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages in excess of $1,000,000 and an unwinding of the acquisition, among other remedies. We intend to vigorously assert all of our available defenses with respect to this matter. We do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the final outcome or 12 Table of Contents resolution of the unresolved proceeding. However, a settlement or an adverse resolution of this matter may result in the payment of costs and damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The results of operations of the Company will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors, executive officers, veterinarians and other employees. The Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain highly qualified persons for such positions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Due to the fixed cost nature of the Company’s business, fluctuations in the Company’s revenue could adversely affect its operating income. A substantial portion of the Company’s expenses, particularly rent and personnel costs, are relatively fixed costs and are based in part on expectations of revenue. The Company may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner to compensate for any significant fluctuations in the Company’s revenue. Accordingly, shortfalls in revenue may adversely affect the Company’s operating income. Demand for certain products and services may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The frequency of customer visits to the Company’s animal hospitals may decline. The Company believes that the frequency of visits is impacted by several trends in the industry. Pet-related products, including medication prescriptions, traditionally sold at animal hospitals, have become more widely available in retail stores and other channels of distribution, including the Internet. Client visits may also be negatively impacted as a result of preventative care and better pet nutrition. Demand for vaccinations will be impacted in the future as protocols for vaccinations change. Some professionals in the industry have recommended that vaccinations be given less frequently. The Company’s veterinarians establish their own vaccine protocols. Some of the Company’s veterinarians have changed their protocols and others may change their protocols in light of recent and/or future literature. If demand for retail products, vaccinations or for the Company’s services generally decline, the frequency of visits may decline which may result in a reduction in revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. An economic downturn could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and recessionary economic conditions may reduce demand for our services. The Company’s business may be materially adversely affected by negative trends in the general economy that reduce consumer spending. The Company’s business depends on the ability and willingness of animal owners to pay for its services. This dependence could make the Company more vulnerable to any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income as compared to companies in other industries that are less reliant on consumer spending, such as the human health care industry, in which a large portion of payments are made by insurance programs. The current financial crises and related economic uncertainty may have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. Other veterinary care providers similar to the Company have recently reported a decline in demand for their veterinary services due, in part, to present economic conditions. If demand for our veterinary services similarly declines, our operating results will be negatively impacted. In addition, declines in our profitability could result in a charge to earnings for the impairment of goodwill, which would not affect our cash flow but could decrease our earnings, and our stock price could be adversely affected. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the global financial crisis currently are unknown, and may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to refinance our existing long-term debt, raise additional capital if needed, the ability of banks to honor draws on our credit facility, and may negatively impact our business and financial results. Goodwill and other intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. We must test our intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which may result in a material, non-cash write down of goodwill and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. 13 Table of Contents Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles are subject to impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. These impairment assessments may result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill. An impairment would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $4.0 million and an impairment of $0.6 million of certain long-lived assets at two of our animal hospitals. The factors that caused us to record the impairments were the loss of key veterinarians and increased competition in the area of those animal hospitals. The fair market valuation of the reporting units was based on an income and market approach. Shortages of skilled veterinarians may cause the Company to experience hiring difficulties which could result in a disruption of its business. As the pet population continues to grow, the need for skilled veterinarians continues to increase. If the Company is unable to retain an adequate number of skilled veterinarians, the Company may lose customers, its revenue may decline and the Company may need to sell or close animal hospitals. At December 31, 2008, there were 28 veterinary schools in the country accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association. These schools graduate approximately 2,100 veterinarians per year. There is a shortage of skilled veterinarians in some regional markets in which the Company operates animal hospitals. During shortages in these regions, the Company may be unable to hire enough qualified veterinarians to adequately staff its animal hospitals, in which event the Company may lose market share and its revenues and profitability may decline. Currently existing or newly enacted laws and regulations could restrict the Company’s business or result in significant costs and expenses. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Company may expand its operations into states which have laws and regulations that prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary-medical care. In those states, the Company will be unable to provide veterinary services or own veterinary practices. However, if the Company chooses to enter such states, the Company would seek alternative structures for operating in those states, including by providing management and other administrative services to veterinary practices located in these states. Although the Company will seek to structure its operations to comply with veterinary medicine laws of each state in which it operates, given the varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, it may not be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of veterinary medicine in all states. A determination that the Company is in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which it operates could have a material adverse effect on its operations, particularly if it is unable to restructure its operations to comply with the requirements of that state. In addition, most states impose various registration requirements on veterinarians and veterinary hospitals. To fulfill these requirements, the Company is required to register each of its facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, appoint a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinarians practicing in its clinics are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The possible wide spread implementation of pet insurance could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and prospects. The possible wide spread implementation of pet insurance and the Company’s operation under such insurance could impose additional fees and costs upon the Company and reduce the revenue from services and related items. If the Company does not accept such insurance or chooses not to participate in pet insurance programs, it could place it at a competitive disadvantage. Acceptance of pet insurance could result in a reduction in fees or the possible imposition of caps for services. The involvement of insurance companies could also increase various administrative requirements related to the submission and processing of claims resulting in a delay in payments or disputes regarding the terms and amounts of available coverage. 14 Table of Contents A decrease in the frequency of animal vaccinations could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and prospects. In the summer of 2003, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated a publication on animal vaccinations, which called for less frequent canine revaccinations. The study concluded that some vaccinations remain effective for periods of three to five years, suggesting that veterinarians should decrease the frequency of vaccinations. A decrease in the frequency of revaccinations and the related revenue could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company faces increasing competition, including from better-established companies that have significantly greater resources, which places pressure on its pricing and which could prevent the Company from increasing revenue or maintaining profitability. The market for the Company’s products is intensely competitive and is likely to become even more so in the future. Many of the Company’s potential competitors have substantial competitive advantages, such as: o greater name recognition and larger marketing budgets and resources; o established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases; and o substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than the Company can to new or changing opportunities or customer requirements. For all of the foregoing reasons, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against its current and future competitors, and its results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to local market risks as a result of the geographic concentration of its operations. The Company’s operations currently are concentrated in the California market. This concentration makes the Company’s business subject to the health of California’s economy, as well as actual or threatened natural disasters (such as earthquakes and fires) which may disrupt the operations of the Company’s veterinarian hospitals, all of which may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock We may not be able to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. The Company’s Common Stock, units and warrants are presently quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market (“Nasdaq”) To maintain the Company’s listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, it must satisfy certain minimum financial and other continued listing standards, including, among other requirements, (i) a $1.00 minimum bid price requirement, (ii) a requirement to maintain either (a) $2.5 million minimum stockholders’ equity, (b) $500,000 minimum annual net income or (c) $35 million minimum market value of listed securities, and (iii) a majority of independent directors. The Company’s stock price has been below the $1.00 minimum bid requirement since November 19, 2008. Ordinarily, if a company’s closing bid price is below $1.00 for thirty consecutive trading days, it receives a notice from NASDAQ that it is subject to delisting if it fails to regain compliance within six months following the date of the notice letter by maintaining a minimum bid closing price of at least $1.00 for ten consecutive business days. However, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the $1.00 minimum bid requirement, through April 17, 2009. The minimum bid requirement is scheduled to be reinstated on April 20, 2009. If NASDAQ reinstates the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement on April 20, 2009 as scheduled and, thereafter, the closing bid price for our common stock is below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, then we will not be in compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements and will receive a notice letter from NASDAQ stating that we will be delisted if we do not regain compliance. In order to regain compliance with the minimum price requirement, the Company would have to attain a stock price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to the 15 Table of Contents expiration of six months from the date of the notice letter from NASDAQ; however, NASDAQ may in its discretion require that we maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days. In addition, if we must record significant impairment or other charges, the Company may have difficulty maintaining its NASDAQ Capital Market listing due to the stockholders’ equity requirement. If the Company is unsuccessful in maintaining its NASDAQ listing, then trading in its Common Stock after a delisting would likely be conducted in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets” or the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board and could also be subject to additional restrictions. There can be no assurance that the Company will meet the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Capital Market, or that it will not be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. The delisting of the Company’s Common Stock could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, liquidity, value and marketability of its Common Stock. In addition, certain of the Company’s outstanding convertible notes provide that the holder may demand payment in full upon the delisting of its Common Stock from NASDAQ. The Company’s stock may be a penny stock. Trading of the Company’s stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The Company’s stock may be a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Company’s equity securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade the Company’s securities. The Company believes that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, its equity securities. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy the Company’s equity securities, which may limit your ability to buy and sell the Company’s equity securities. The market prices of the Company’s securities are likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of the Company’s Common Stock, units and warrants could be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including changes in government regulations and changes in general economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the market prices of the Company’s securities could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of additional factors, including: o announcements of new products or services by its competitors; o demand for its services; o changes in the pricing policies of its competitors; and o changes in government regulations. The amount of stock held by executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. As of March 15, 2009, executive officers, directors and affiliates of the Company owned approximately 55% of the Company’s voting stock. In addition, certain of these stockholders are parties to a Board Voting Agreement pursuant to which they have each agreed for three years following the consummation of the Merger to vote shares beneficially owned by them for the election to the Company’s board of directors of (a) Robert Wallace, for so long as Mr. Wallace owns two percent or more of its fully diluted shares, (b) five designees named by the Stockholders’ Representatives pursuant to the Merger Agreement, one of whom shall be the designee of Galen Partners IV LP or its affiliates who shall serve as non-executive Vice Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, and (c) four designees named by Echo’s initial stockholders, one of whom shall include Gene Burleson. These stockholders can have a substantial influence on all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Common Stock or prevent stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of Common Stock. If the Company’s existing stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Certain stockholders are parties to registration rights agreements which entitle them to require the Company to register the resale of their shares of common stock under certain circumstances. Galen, Camden and certain of our directors and executive officers are among the parties to registration rights agreements with the Company. If the Company’s existing stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be significantly more shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The exercise of the Company’s outstanding warrants and/or conversion of the Company’s outstanding convertible securities will result in a dilution of the Company’s current stockholders’ voting power and an increase in the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market which may negatively impact the market price of the Company’s shares. The conversion or exercise of some or all our convertible debt obligations and warrants could significantly dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The currently outstanding 12% Senior Notes are convertible into 650,000 shares of Common Stock. In addition, the 12% Senior Notes provide that the 12% interest due thereon shall be paid in additional 12% Senior Notes. These additional 12% Senior Notes are also convertible into Common Stock at $10.00 per share. The Company had outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,628,313 shares of Common Stock as of March 27, 2009, including (i) 458,331 warrants issued in a private placement to certain founding stockholders of Echo concurrently with the initial public offering of Echo, convertible into shares of the Company’s Common Stock at $6.00 per share, and (ii) 15,000,000 warrants issued in connection with the private placement of the 12% Senior Notes. 17 Table of Contents To the extent the warrants are exercised, additional shares of the Company’s Common Stock will be issued, which will dilute existing stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. In addition, Morgan Joseph & Co. Inc. also holds an option to purchase up to 312,500 units of the Company identical to the units sold in Echo’s initial public offering at $10.00 per unit. Additionally, the issuance of up to 1,349,294 shares of the Company’s Common Stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants originally issued by PVGI and up to 530,259 shares issuable upon conversion of convertible debentures originally issued by PVGI, as well as stock options and other awards pursuant to the Company’s incentive plans, will further dilute the Company’s existing stockholders’ voting interest. In addition to the dilutive effects described above, the conversion or exercise of those securities would lead to a potential increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 