Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Risks Associated with Our Business A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the sales of our Smart Balance® buttery spreads products and our future ability to maintain and grow our revenues depends upon continued sales of these products. Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse affect on our ability to remain profitable and achieve future growth. Approximately 41% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 resulted from sales of our Smart Balance® buttery spreads products, which we expect will continue to be a large percentage of sales in the future. There has been a decline in the margarine/buttery spreads category in recent years and generally over the past 30 years. In addition, our revenue from sales of our Smart Balance® buttery spreads products for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 5% less than it was in the prior year. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to commercialize our buttery spreads products or that any of our buttery spreads products will continue to be accepted in their markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect continued market acceptance and profitability of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products: •the introduction of competitive products into the functional food market;•the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts;•continued or accelerating decline in the buttery spreads category, particularly the premium segment of the buttery spreads category;•any unfavorable publicity regarding buttery spread products or similar products;•litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products;•the price of the product relative to other competing products;•price increases resulting from rising commodity costs;•any changes in government policies and practices related to our products and markets;•regulatory developments affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products;•new products or technologies which effectively render our buttery spreads products obsolete;•new science or research which undermines the efficacy of our buttery spreads products; and•adverse decisions or rulings limiting our ability to promote the benefits of our buttery spreads products and technology.Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability and achieve our business plan. The loss of a significant customer or significant reduction in purchase volume by any such customer could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and net income. A limited number of supermarket chains and food wholesalers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 56% of sales in 2012. Our largest customer is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately 15% of our sales in 2012. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue their relationships with us. In addition, there is no assurance that our customers will not reduce our shelf space, continue to carry the same number of our products, charge us more for shelf space or shelve our new products. A significant reduction or loss in purchase volume from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of our spreads and certain of our other products (other than certain of Glutino's and many of Udi's gluten-free products), and the loss of a manufacturer or the inability of a manufacturer to fulfill our orders or to maintain the quality of our products could adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product or result in product recalls. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture all of our spreads and other products (other than certain of Glutino's and many of Udi's gluten-free products). The ability of any of our manufacturers to produce our products could be affected by catastrophic events. We currently rely on and may continue to rely on two manufacturers to produce all of our spreads. If either 10TABLE OF CONTENTSmanufacturer were unable or unwilling to produce sufficient quantities of our products in a timely manner or renew contracts with us, we would have to identify and qualify new manufacturers, which we may be unable to do. As we expand our operations, we may have to seek new manufacturers and suppliers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones. However, only a limited number of manufacturers may have the ability to produce a high volume of our products, and it could take a significant period of time to locate and qualify such alternative production sources. In addition, we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or that such manufacturers could allocate sufficient capacity in order to meet our requirements, which could materially adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product. In addition, there can be no assurance that the capacity of our current manufacturers will be sufficient to fulfill our orders and any supply shortfall could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Currently, some of our products are produced by a single third party source maintaining only one facility. The risks of interruption described above are exacerbated with respect to these single source, single facility manufacturers. Shipments to and from the warehouses could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including weather conditions, strikes, and shipping delays. Any significant delay in the shipments of product would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate during a particular period or periods. We have from time to time experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the production and delivery of product. Our manufacturers are required to maintain the quality of our products and to comply with our Product Manual specifications and requirements for certain certifications. In addition, our manufacturers are required to comply with all federal, state and local laws with respect to food safety. However, there can be no assurance that our manufacturers will continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or in compliance with applicable laws, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify instances in which our manufacturers fail to comply with our standards or applicable laws. We would have the same issue with new suppliers. We have occasionally received, and may from time to time receive, shipments of products that fail to conform to our standards. The failure of any manufacturer to produce products that conform to our standards could materially and adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and result in product recalls, product liability claims and severe economic loss. The manufacturing formulas for some of Glutino's gluten-free products are owned by third parties, not by us. The loss of Glutino's ability to access these formulas could adversely affect Glutino's ability to continue to offer these products. Glutino does not own the manufacturing formulas for all of its gluten-free products. Certain of these formulas are owned by third parties, including our manufacturers. If Glutino loses its ability to access any of these formulas for any reason (including because a manufacturer that owns a formula becomes unwilling or unable to supply sufficient quantities of products in a timely manner), we may need to re-create the formula or develop a new one. This process may be time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in accurately re-creating the formula, developing a new formula or continuing to offer the product. Our business model relies heavily on the skill set, experience, industry knowledge and industry contacts of our executive management team. The departure of one or more members of our executive management team could be disruptive and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The business model we operate requires specialized skill sets to operate and manage both internal and external teams and operating entities in an efficient coordinated effort. There is a limited available talent pool for these skill sets. If we experience turnover in our executive management ranks there can be no assurance that we can smoothly transition replacements in a timely and efficient manner. Unique skill sets and industry contacts may be difficult or in some instances impossible to duplicate. In early 2012, the compensation committee approved new equity and severance arrangements for our senior management to provide senior management with additional financial incentives to remain with the Company While we believe that these actions have helped to minimize the risk that management may seek employment elsewhere, this risk cannot be eliminated and no assurance can be given that we will not experience management turnover. Disruption to our organization as a result of executive management turnover may have a detrimental impact on our ability to maintain our business performance on a consistent level and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We rely on Acosta, Inc. to act as our primary sales agent for a significant portion of our products and there could be significant disruption in our ability to sell products to our customers for the majority of our sales if our relationship was terminated. 11TABLE OF CONTENTSAcosta, Inc. is the largest sales agency in the U.S. and represents a significant portion of our product line to thousands of supermarkets and food stores. There are a very limited number of national brokers. Our agreement with Acosta is terminable by either us or Acosta after satisfaction of a short notice period. The termination of our agreement would require us to seek other sales agents, likely causing significant disruption to our business, and could affect our relationships with our customers. New sales agents would also potentially face conflicts of interest with respect to their existing customers. Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. The food processing industry in general, and the functional food and need-state specific industries (including the gluten-free industry) in particular, are subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the functional food and gluten-free industries change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could, among other things, lead to reduced demand and price reductions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These changes might include consumer demand for new products or formulations that include health-promoting ingredients. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their needs and preferences on a timely and affordable basis. Price increases could result in a loss of customer loyalty and sales.Price increases could result in a loss of consumer loyalty, potentially leading to lower volumes and sales. In 2012, our competitors increased prices (particularly in the spreads category) and we followed with price increases as well. As consumers become increasingly price sensitive, there can be no assurance that these pricing actions will not result in a loss to us of consumers and market share or that we will be able to maintain our sales volumes as prices increase. Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the legal protection of proprietary rights in intellectual property that we own or license. We also claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to our products and manufacturing processes. Our ability to implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to expand brand recognition using trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. If existing contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property (including, by reverse-engineering our products), any advantage those proprietary rights provide may be negated and the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. Moreover, as we move into new and additional distribution channels for our products, such as foodservice, and as we seek to establish relationships with additional co-packers for our gluten-free products, it may become increasingly difficult or impossible for us to protect our intellectual property (including trade secrets) and knowhow.Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult and we cannot be certain that the precautions we have taken will prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and know-how, particularly in countries where we do not have trademarks or patents at all or where the laws of such country may not protect our proprietary rights as adequately as the laws of the United States or at all. Accordingly, other parties, including competitors, may duplicate our products using our proprietary technologies. Pursuing legal remedies against persons infringing on our patents or otherwise improperly using our proprietary information is a costly and time-consuming process that would divert management's attention and other resources from the conduct of our business, which could cause delays and other problems with the marketing and sales of our products, as well as delays in deliveries. We commenced a patent infringement program in 2011 in which we have been seeking to enforce our intellectual property against third parties. We have commenced legal actions against third parties infringing on the patents in the past and may commence similar legal actions in the future. When we seek to enforce our patents, defendants are permitted to raise issues like prior art which could have the impact of invalidating or limiting the claims of our owned or licensed patents which may cause harm to our image, brand or competitive position. In addition, patent infringement cases can involve hearings in which the court determines the boundaries of the patent in dispute, which could limit the utility of our patents. Our patent infringement program could also result in litigation in which third parties file declaratory judgments against us. Any such litigation could be costly and time-consuming and a declaratory judgment could limit the utility of our patents. We rely on a combination of common law trademark rights, U.S. and Canadian federal registration rights, and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our trademark rights for current 12TABLE OF CONTENTSproducts or register trademarks or obtain common law trademark rights using “Smart Balance,” “Earth Balance,” “Bestlife,” “Glutino,” "Gluten-Free Pantry" or “Udi's” for any new product lines we may introduce. The inability to have the exclusive right to use these terms in new product names could weaken our ability to create strong brands in existing and new product categories and could dilute the value of our trademarks. We are currently involved in several trademark opposition proceedings involving the registration of the Smart Balance mark in new categories. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these proceedings may hamper our ability to expand into desired categories as part of our overall growth plan. In addition, in 2007, three parties filed Oppositions to European Patent No. 820,307 relating to increasing the HDL level and the HDL/LDL ratio in Human Serum by Balancing Saturated and Polyunsaturated Dietary Fatty Acids. A written decision of the panel ruled against the Company and we have filed an appeal. We believe that neither this proceeding, nor its outcome, will have a material adverse effect on our current business. Although we rely in part on common law trademarks to protect our proprietary rights, common law trademark rights do not provide the same level of protection as afforded by the United States federal registration of a trademark. Common law trademark rights are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used, plus a reasonable zone of future expansion, while U.S. federal registration on the Principal Register provides the registrant with superior rights throughout the United States, subject to certain exceptions. To the extent that we have registered our trademarks in foreign jurisdictions where our products are or may be sold, the protection available in such jurisdictions may not be as extensive as the protection available in the United States. Additionally, we may be unable to register the “Smart Balance,” “Earth Balance,” “Bestlife,” “Glutino,” "Gluten-Free Pantry" or “Udi's” trademarks for the products that we may want to sell in certain markets, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into any such countries. If we fail to meet our obligations under our principal license agreement with Brandeis University, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Approximately 47% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 were dependent upon our principal license of certain technology from Brandeis University. The licensed technology covers all Smart Balance® spreads and popcorn, all Earth Balance® spreads and shortenings, BestlifeTM spreads and sticks and Nucoa® sticks. The license agreement imposes obligations upon us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue the development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If the licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under the license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to continue to sell existing products and to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products or sub-license the technology could be materially adversely affected. It is difficult to accurately quantify the economic impact on us if we defaulted under our license agreement except to conclude that our ability to continue our business could be severely adversely affected. The expiration of our rights under the principal license agreement with Brandeis University may result in the loss of one of our key competitive advantages in the buttery spreads category, which could result in a material adverse effect on revenue and spreads volume. The exclusive rights granted to the Company under the principal license agreement with Brandeis are set to expire upon the expiration of the term of the subject patent rights. Accordingly, in the US, the rights granted to the Company under the license agreement will expire in April of 2015. Following the expiration of these rights, the Company's ability to maintain market share in the spreads category will be largely dependent on overall brand strength, marketing efforts and development of new technologies and failure to do so effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Any sustained economic downturn in the U.S. and abroad and related consumer sentiment could make it more difficult to sell our premium priced products and may have a detrimental impact on our third-party manufacturers, suppliers, distributors and customers, which could result in a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. Any sustained difficult economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad would negatively impact us in several ways. First, high unemployment, loss of savings and retirement funds, and declines in the housing market, can lead to a lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Economic pressures and/or negative consumer sentiment may result in consumers purchasing less expensive alternatives, make it more difficult to sell our premium priced products, convince shoppers to switch to our brands or convince new users to choose our brands without expensive sampling programs and price promotions. Second, one or more of our manufacturers, suppliers, distributors and customers may experience cash flow problems 13TABLE OF CONTENTSand, therefore, such manufacturers, suppliers, distributors and customers may be forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases would make it difficult for us to continue production of certain products, could require us to reduce sales of our products or could result in uncollectable accounts receivable. Financial difficulties or solvency problems at these manufacturers, suppliers and distributors could materially adversely affect their ability to supply us with products, which could disrupt our operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement for certain manufacturers, suppliers or distributors without significant delay or increase in cost. We do not expect that the difficult economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future. Any negative effect on the ability of consumers to purchase our premium products, or any interruption of our manufacturing, supply chain or distribution for any reason (including but not limited to financial distress, natural disaster or production difficulties), could substantially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs as well as increased costs associated with product processing and transportation could materially adversely affect our operating results. Both we and our manufacturers obtain most of the key ingredients used in our products from third-party suppliers. As with most food products, the availability and cost of raw materials used in our products can be significantly affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, growing decisions, government programs (including government programs and mandates relating to ethanol), weather conditions such as frosts, drought, and floods, and plant diseases, pests and other acts of nature. Because we do not control the production of raw materials, we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production of raw materials based on conditions not within our control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, natural disasters, palm oil sustainability issues and boycotts of products or other catastrophic events. There can be no assurance that we or our manufacturers will be able to obtain alternative sources of raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, should there be shortages or other unfavorable conditions. In some instances, we enter into forward purchase commitments to secure the costs of projected commodity requirements needed to produce our finished goods. These commitments are stated at a firm price, or as a discount or premium from a future commodity price and are placed with our manufacturers or directly with ingredient/packaging suppliers. There can be no assurance that our pricing commitments will result in the lowest available cost for the commodities used in our products.One of our key raw materials is palm fruit oil. We currently obtain palm fruit oil from multiple sources in Malaysia, West Africa and South America. Any inability to obtain palm fruit oil, whether due to political instability in the regions where we source it or otherwise, or an increase in the cost of palm fruit oil for any reason, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, energy is required to process and produce our products. Transportation costs, including fuel and labor, also impact the cost of manufacturing our products. These costs fluctuate significantly over time due to factors that may be beyond our control. Our inability or our manufacturers' inabilities to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products or energy at favorable prices, or at all, as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause an increase in our cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin, or cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate from period to period. Such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. There is no assurance that we would be able to pass along any cost increases to our customers. Our advertising is regulated for accuracy, and if our advertising is determined to be false or misleading, we may face fines or sanctions. Our advertising is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits dissemination of false or misleading advertising. In addition, the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc., which we refer to as NAD, administers a self-regulatory program of the advertising industry to ensure truth and accuracy in national advertising. NAD both monitors national advertising and entertains inquiries and challenges from competing companies and consumers. Should our advertising be determined to be false or misleading, we may have to pay damages, withdraw our campaign and possibly face fines or sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Adverse publicity or consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns, whether with our products or for food products in the same food group as our products, may result in the loss of sales. 14TABLE OF CONTENTSWe are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality and possible dietary benefits of our products. As a result, substantial negative publicity concerning one or more of our products or other foods and beverages similar to or in the same food group as our products could lead to a loss of consumer confidence in our products, removal of our products from retailers' shelves and reduced sales and prices of our products. Product quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could hurt the image of our brands and cause consumers to choose other products. Further, any product recall, whether our own or by a third party within one of our categories, whether due to real or unfounded allegations, could damage our brand image and reputation. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we conduct operations in a market segment that suffers a loss in consumer confidence as to the safety and quality of food and beverage products, our business could be materially adversely affected. The food industry has recently been subject to negative publicity concerning the health implications of genetically modified organisms, or “GMO's,” obesity, trans fat, diacetyl, artificial growth hormones, arsenic in rice and bacterial contamination, such as salmonella and aflatoxin. Consumers may increasingly require that foods meet stricter standards than are required by applicable governmental agencies, which would increase the cost of manufacturing such foods and ingredients. Developments in any of these areas including, but not limited to, a negative perception about our proprietary formulations, could cause our operating results to differ materially from expected results. Any of these events could harm our sales, increase our costs and hurt our operating results, perhaps significantly. The food industry has been experiencing a significant trend in which an increasing number of consumers are requiring only non-GMO ingredients in their foods. Legislation could also require companies to move to non-GMO labeling or ingredients or other higher cost ingredients. This could result in changes to our labeling, advertising and/or packaging or require us to purchase non-GMO ingredients, which would increase our costs. Sourcing non-GMO ingredients increases costs because non-GMO ingredients and raw materials are generally more expensive and we may not be able to increase our prices to reflect this increased cost. Companies that fail to source non-GMO ingredients could, over time, lose market share and face decreasing sales. As additional retailers require or consider requiring all of their products to be non-GMO, additional pressure will come to bear on manufacturers to find sources of raw materials which are non-GMO. This may be particularly difficult in the United States, where most farmers produce genetically modified foods, causing it to be difficult to source non-GMO ingredients and raw materials. There is also a risk of contamination of non-GMO farms by neighboring GMO farms. Our biggest customer, Walmart, does not currently sell only non-GMO foods, but this could change in the future. As a result, the trend toward non-GMO products could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly as we pursue additional business in Europe and outside the United States. We have no long-term contracts with our customers which require the purchase of a minimum amount of our products. The absence of long-term contracts could result in periods during which we must continue to pay costs and service indebtedness without current revenues or with reduced revenues. As is generally the case in the retail consumer goods industry, our customers do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. As a result of the absence of long-term contracts, we could have periods during which we have no or only limited orders for our products, but we will continue to have to pay our costs including costs to maintain our work force and service our indebtedness, without the benefit of current revenues or with reduced revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely find new customers to supplement periods where we experience no or limited purchase orders or that we can recover fixed costs as a result of experiencing reduced purchase orders. Periods of no or limited purchase orders for our products could have a material adverse effect on our net income, cause us to incur losses or result in violations of the debt covenants contained in our credit agreement. The Company's performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the U.S. and abroad. The Company's performance is affected by economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad. Such conditions and factors include changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes in food and drug laws, accounting standards, taxation requirements and environmental laws. Other factors impacting our operations include recessionary conditions, the performance of businesses in hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts and political unrest. Such changes could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and financial condition. In addition, unfavorable general economic conditions could affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, some of our products. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by foregoing purchases of our products or by purchasing lower-priced alternatives from our competitors. The prices of our key commodities inputs, such as palm oil, soybean oil and milk, could fluctuate greatly as a result of economic and political factors. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business. 15TABLE OF CONTENTS We do business in Canada, may seek to do more business outside the United States in the future, and also have third-party manufacturers located outside the U.S., and, as such, are subject to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations as it pertains to the receipt and payment of foreign currencies into or out of U.S. dollars. In some instances, we enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge against currency risks. However, with or without hedging, currency fluctuations could have an adverse affect on our business. We may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions. One of our strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions, in order to continue to grow and increase profitability. However, acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including intense competition for suitable acquisition targets, which could increase prices and/or adversely affect our ability to consummate deals on favorable or acceptable terms, the potential unavailability of financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions in the future, the risk that we improperly value and price a target, the potential inability to identify all of the risks and liabilities inherent in a target company notwithstanding the Company's due diligence efforts, the diversion of management's attention from the operations of our business and strain on the Company's existing personnel, increased leverage due to additional debt financing that may be required to complete an acquisition, dilution of our stockholders' net current book value per share if we issue additional equity securities to finance an acquisition, difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets or in completing any transactions identified on sufficiently favorable terms and the need to obtain regulatory or other governmental approvals that may be necessary to complete acquisitions. In addition, any future acquisitions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets. In addition, even when acquisitions are completed, integration of acquired entities can involve significant difficulties, such as failure to achieve financial or operating objectives with respect to an acquisition, strain on the Company's personnel, systems and operational and managerial controls and procedures, the need to modify systems or to add management resources, difficulties in the integration and retention of customers or personnel and the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies, amortization of acquired assets (which would reduce future reported earnings), possible adverse short-term effects on cash flows or operating results, diversion of management's attention from the operations of our business, integrating personnel with diverse backgrounds and organizational cultures, coordinating sales and marketing functions and failure to obtain and retain key personnel of an acquired business. Failure to manage these acquisition growth risks could have an adverse effect on us.We may fail to realize the revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's.On August 3, 2011, we purchased Glutino, a manufacturer and marketer of gluten-free products. On July 2, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Udi's, a Denver, Colorado based manufacturer and marketer of gluten-free products. The success of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to improve their gross margin, maintain their sales growth, realize anticipated synergies and successfully integrate the Glutino and Udi's businesses into our company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, efforts to integrate the Glutino and Udi's businesses into our company may also divert management attention and resources.Issues that may arise in connection with integrating the Glutino and Udi's businesses include, among other things:•integrating certain distribution, marketing and promotion activities and information systems;•conforming Glutino and Udi's standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies to our own;•consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •retaining key management; •retaining existing Glutino and Udi's customers and attracting new customers; and•making any necessary modifications to the Udi's operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, our ability to realize the revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's is dependent on the continued stability and future growth of the market for gluten-free products. If the demand for gluten-free products declines, or does not continue to increase in the long-term (including as a result of increased competition), our results of operations may be adversely affected.We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of Glutino and Udi's successfully, improve their gross margin, maintain their sales growth, fully realize anticipated synergies from the acquisitions or operate Glutino and Udi's 16TABLE OF CONTENTSas profitably as anticipated. Our beliefs regarding the benefits to be derived from the acquisition of Glutino and Udi's are based on numerous assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could deviate materially from our expectations.Our acquisitions of Udi's and Glutino subject us to the risks associated with and expenditures necessary to maintain and continue to upgrade our manufacturing facilities. While historically we have mainly outsourced the manufacturing of our products to third parties, as a result of our acquisitions of Udi's and Glutino, we now lease and operate four manufacturing facilities which produce many of the products which are sold by Udi's and Glutino. During 2013, we plan to consolidate all of our Udi's facilities located in Denver into one 180,000 square foot plant which will manufacture many of our Udi's and Glutino gluten-free products. This subjects us to the risks associated with operating, and expenditures necessary to maintain and continue to upgrade, manufacturing facilities and machinery and equipment. Any loss of the use of all or a portion of any of our facilities due to accidents, fires, explosions, labor issues, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, ice storms and earthquakes, supply interruptions, transportation interruptions, human error, mechanical failure, terrorist acts, power outages, discharges or releases of hazardous substances and other environmental issues, or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In particular, once we complete the consolidation of all of our Udi's facilities into one plant in Denver, any loss of the use of this facility would have a material adverse effect on us. Any loss of the use of all or a portion of any of our facilities could result in substantial business losses, production delays, third party lawsuits and significant repair costs, as well as personal injury and/or loss of life, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and cash flows.Moreover, unexpected failures of our equipment and machinery could result in production delays, revenue loss and significant repair costs, as well as injuries to our employees. In some cases facilities are designated for certain types of products based on the unique equipment involved and it is more difficult, or impossible, for us to shift production of these products among our facilities. Any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative impact on our profitability and cash flows. A loss or interruption of production at certain of our facilities could disrupt our operations and affect a large number of customers, decreasing our revenues.We are also subject to losses associated with equipment shutdowns, which may be caused by the loss or interruption of electrical power to our facilities due to unusually high demand, blackouts, adverse weather, equipment failure or other catastrophic events. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of electrical power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and cash flows.Finally, our ownership and operation of manufacturing facilities will require us to incur potentially significant capital and other expenditures to maintain those facilities and, where necessary, expand and to upgrade those facilities to satisfy demand for our existing products, in connection with the introduction of new products and to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including requirements of the FDA. Our purchase of Glutino and Udi's involves the risks of entering into a new line of business of gluten-free products, where we have no prior experience. Through our purchases of Glutino and Udi's we entered into a new line of business of gluten-free products, including snack foods, frozen baked goods, frozen entrees, granola, bread and baking mixes. While gluten-free products are currently extremely popular and sales in the gluten-free industry generally have been increasing rapidly, there is no assurance that consumers will continue to be interested in these products, and consumers may in the future choose to purchase other products which they perceive to be healthier or more “trendy” at a future time. Prior to the Glutino and Udi's acquisitions, we had no experience in the gluten-free business or with any of such product lines, and we had no prior manufacturing experience. Our purchases of Glutino and Udi's have resulted in our operating four gluten-free manufacturing facilities, which involves the risks inherent in manufacturing. We are currently planning to consolidate all of our Udi's facilities in Denver into one single facility in Denver, which will result in the risks inherent in relying heavily on a single facility. Further, we expect that we will need to increase our capital expenditures in 2013 and beyond in order to keep up with growing demand for our products and to improve our gross margin. In addition, as our gluten-free business increases, we will need to locate qualified co-packers with sufficient dedicated space for our gluten-free products and contract with them on commercially viable terms, and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. In some cases, we rely on a single co-packer for certain products. The use of co-packers increases the risk of a potential loss of control over our intellectual property on co-packed items. As demand for gluten-free products grows, we will need to increase our production, both through internal 17TABLE OF CONTENTSmanufacturing and external co-packers, in order to ensure that we have sufficient supply to meet increasing demand. Furthermore, we are currently one of the industry leaders of gluten-free products, and we are often among the first to market new products or improvements to existing products, resulting in risk of failure of our new or improved products. Our failure to successfully operate the gluten-free business may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Glutino business does not have agreements with most of its co-packers, and several Glutino products are produced through single co-packers, some of which are located in foreign countries. Our ability to attract and maintain effective relationships with our co-packers for the production and delivery of Glutino's products is important to achieving success within various distribution areas. Glutino does not have agreements in place with most of its co-packers, and its co-packers may terminate their arrangements with Glutino at any time, in which case we could experience disruptions in our ability to deliver Glutino products to our customers. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with current co-packers or establish satisfactory relationships with new or replacement co-packers, whether in existing or new geographic distribution areas. In addition, several Glutino products are developed with the assistance of a single co-packer. As we increase the sale of our gluten-free products, we will increasingly need to work with additional co-packers, and it may become increasingly difficult to locate qualified co-packers and to contract with them on commercially viable terms. The failure to establish and maintain effective relationships with co-packers could increase our costs for Glutino products and thereby materially reduce profits realized from the sale of Glutino products. In addition, poor relations with any of our co-packers could adversely affect the amount and timing of Glutino products delivered to our distributors for resale, which would in turn adversely affect our revenues and financial condition.Some of our single-source co-packers are located outside of the United States. As such, it may be difficult to enforce any claims under purchase orders or for product damage in the jurisdictions in which these co-packers are located. Also, it is generally more difficult for us to manage the delivery of inventory from these co-packers, due to their location in foreign countries. Finally, the occurrence of economic changes, political unrest or other significant events in the countries in which these co-packers are located could adversely affect the amount and timing of Glutino products delivered for resale, or force us to seek alternative co-packing arrangements.We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities, including liabilities arising from litigation. In the ordinary course of business, we have and in the future may become the subject of various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, employees and other matters. Some of these claims may relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of the businesses. We maintain insurance to cover certain of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self-retentions, deductibles and caps under our insurance. It is possible, however, that judgments could be rendered against us in cases in which we would be uninsured and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for these matters. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms in the future, and we may incur losses from interruption of our business that exceed our insurance coverage. Finally, even in cases where we maintain insurance coverage, our insurers may raise various objections and exceptions to coverage that could make uncertain the timing and amount of any possible insurance recovery. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's and other companies with procedures not identical to our own could place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and a decline in the market price of our common stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including reasons not specifically related to our performance, such as industry or market trends, reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, actions by credit rating agencies, negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance or actions taken by our competitors, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other companies within our industry experience declines in their stock price, our stock price may decline as well, notwithstanding our company's performance. 18TABLE OF CONTENTSOur common stock price is also affected by announcements we make about our business, analyst reports related to our company, changes in financial estimates by analysts, rating agency announcements about our business, and future sales of our common stock, among other factors. Our stock price may also be affected by fluctuations in the market share of our products. In addition, if we fail to successfully integrate our acquisitions or our integration of the acquisitions takes longer than anticipated, our stock price may be adversely affected. As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the market for our common stock is not as large as the market for the common stock of some other public companies, including public companies in the food and beverage industry. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 59.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. Our shares of common stock may be sporadically and/or thinly traded. This may cause you to have difficulty in gaining liquidity in your shares. Also, as a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares of common stock by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. This may result in volatility in our stock price and could exacerbate the other volatility-inducing factors described above.Our recent acquisitions have significantly increased the number of employees we have, subjecting us to the risks inherent in a larger and broader workforce, including labor disputes and adverse employee relations, which could disrupt our business and increase our costs.As a result of our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's, the number of employees we have has increased from 70 on June 30, 2011 to 613 as of December 31, 2012. This has significantly changed our workforce from primarily sales and marketing personnel (with co-packers) to a broader workforce including all aspects of manufacturing and production. As a result of our bigger and broader workforce, we are now required to handle a broad range of human resources issues (on a broader scale) involving, among other things, training, quality control, employee evaluations, employee benefits, EEOC claims, compliance policies and federal and state OSHA requirements. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, employees at our Glutino manufacturing facility in Laval, Quebec, Canada have formed a labor union and our other employees could in the future seek to form labor unions. These labor unions could seek to enter into collective bargaining arrangements with us, which could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, labor disturbances or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We could experience significant disruption in our operations, which would cause higher ongoing labor costs and impact our ability to satisfy our customers' requirements. Any such cost increases, stoppages or disturbances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and cash flows by limiting plant production, sales volumes and profitability.To the extent we grow our business outside of the United States, we will face risks associated with conducting business in foreign markets. We currently conduct most of our business in the United States, but our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's have significantly increased our presence in Canada, and we are evaluating the possibility of doing business in certain other foreign countries. The substantial up-front investment required, the lack of consumer awareness of our products in jurisdictions outside the United States, differences in consumer preferences and trends between the United States and other jurisdictions (involving matters such as GMO and fresh products), the risk of inadequate intellectual property protections, and differences in packaging, labeling, food and related laws, rules and regulations are all substantial matters that need to be evaluated prior to doing business in new territories. To the extent we grow our business outside of the United States, we could be adversely affected by economic, legal, political and regulatory developments in the countries in which we do business in the future or in which we expand our business, particularly those countries which have historically experienced a high degree of political or economic instability. Examples of risks inherent in doing business outside of North American activities include changes in the political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs, the adoption of foreign or domestic laws limiting exports to or imports from certain foreign countries, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the value of the U.S. dollar, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, expropriation of property without fair compensation, weak protection of intellectual property rights, and the acceptance of business practices which are not consistent with or are antithetical to prevailing business practices we are accustomed to in the United States, including export compliance 19TABLE OF CONTENTSand anti-bribery practices and governmental sanctions. We may also face difficulties in operations and diversion of management time in connection with establishing our business in countries where we have not operated before.Doing business outside the United States will also require us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various foreign jurisdictions which place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations will be subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or “FCPA,” export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or “OFAC.” As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we will be exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. In addition, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, or the “Bribery Act,” extends beyond bribery of foreign public officials and also applies to transactions with individuals that a government does not employ. The provisions of the Bribery Act are also more onerous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non-exemption of facilitation payments and penalties. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA, OFAC or Bribery Act violations in the future. Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. Risks Related to the Food and Beverage Industries Our business operations may be subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our operations. Manufacturers and marketers of food and beverage products are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, which we refer to as the FDA, the United States Department of Agriculture, which we refer to as the USDA, and other national, state and local authorities. For example, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the new Food Safety Modernization Act and their regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of foods and beverages. Under these acts, the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods and beverages through its current “good manufacturing practices” regulations, imposes ingredient specifications and requirements for many foods and beverages and inspects food and beverage facilities and issues recalls for tainted food and beverage products. Additionally, the USDA has adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program. Food and beverage manufacturing facilities and products are also subject to periodic inspection by federal, state and local authorities. State regulations are not always consistent with federal regulations or other state regulations. Our operations are also subject to foreign and provincial regulation and oversight by governmental agencies in the countries in which we operate, including the Canadian Food Inspection Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture in Canada, which regulate the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of the products we manufacture, including food safety standards. We are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to competition, product safety, the protection of the environment, and employment and labor practices, and the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are subject to, among others, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, various environmental statutes, as well as various state and local statutes and regulations. Our Canadian manufacturing facilities are also subject to inspection by Canadian federal, provincial and local authorities. Any changes in laws and regulations applicable to food and beverage products could increase the cost of developing and distributing our products and otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The growth of our business will rely on our ability to successfully introduce products in numerous new categories and distribution channels. For example, the milk industry is highly regulated at the national, state and local levels and requires significant compliance and reporting activities. In addition, through our acquisitions of Glutino and Udi's, we have expanded our product offerings into the gluten-free market, including snack foods, frozen baked goods, frozen entrees, granola, bread and baking mixes. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, 20TABLE OF CONTENTSincluding fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We could also be affected by climate change and any regulations implemented to address such concerns. There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions as a result of changing weather patterns could limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities. We are a large user of palm oil and could be affected by sustainability issues related to rain forests and the impact this would have on palm oil production. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt suppliers or impact demand for our products. In addition, public and governmental expectations or demands for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any food or beverage products manufactured or marketed by us cause injury, illness or death. Regardless of whether such claims against us are valid, they may be expensive to defend and may generate negative publicity, both of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. The sale of food and beverage products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of bacterial contamination, foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during production processes. Although we believe that we and our manufacturers are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of our products causes or is alleged to have caused an illness in the future, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding an illness, injury or death could materially adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers on a permanent basis and our corporate image and operating results. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have. While we have product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be adequate, we cannot be sure that claims or liabilities will be asserted for which adequate insurance will be available or that such claims or liabilities will not exceed the available amount of insurance coverage. Our food or beverage products may also experience product tampering, contamination or spoilage or be mislabeled or otherwise damaged. Under certain circumstances a product recall could be initiated, leading to a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and operating results. Recalls may be required to avoid seizures or civil or criminal litigation or due to market demands. Even if such a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims could be asserted against us. A product liability judgment or a product recall involving us or a third party within one of our categories could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity and could impair the perception of our brands for an extended period of time. Our manufacturing facilities for certain of our Glutino and Udi's products will need to comply with regulatory requirements, and we are also dependent on our third party manufacturers for compliance with sound and lawful production of many of our products. Even if we have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and brand image. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations, which could have a detrimental effect on our performance. A judgment that is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our results. The food and beverage industry has been subject to a growing number of claims, including class action lawsuits based on the nutritional content of food products as well as disclosure and advertising practices. We are currently facing and in the future may continue to face these types of claims and proceedings and, even if we are successful in defending these claims, publicity about these matters may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. In addition, suits against our competitors can harm our business. These types of class action lawsuits can also make it more difficult for us to market our products, by restricting our ability to differentiate the functional food aspects of our products from other products on the market. Furthermore, the defense of class action lawsuits can result in significant costs, which are often times not covered by insurance, can be time consuming and can divert the attention of management from other matters relating to our business. Successful new product introductions are important to sustaining or growing our business and there is no guarantee that customers will accept our products for their stores or set reasonable prices for our products. Even where customers accept our 21TABLE OF CONTENTSproducts, the Company still must expend resources to create consumer awareness and generate interest in our products. In addition, competitors may offer significant price reductions, and we cannot ensure that consumers will find our products suitably differentiated from products of our competitors. The food industry and retailers in the grocery industry use new products as a way of creating excitement and variety of choices in order to attract consumers. There is a risk that we will be unable to develop new product technologies to address consumer needs. Even if we identify new innovations, the cost may be prohibitive, the product's taste may not meet customer standards, there may be high introductory costs, we may have limited financial resources available for new product launches, there may be regulatory restrictions on the production and advertising of our new products, and our new products may take away sales from other of our products. In addition, underperformance on new product launches can damage overall brand credibility with customers.Our ability to develop, market, and sell new products at an appropriate price may be hampered by the inability to get shelf space for our products at a reasonable cost or, once placed, have an attractive price set for our products. Competitors, many of whom have greater resources than us, vie for the same shelf placement and may offer incentives to the retailers that we cannot match. In addition, unattractive shelf placement and pricing may put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. Furthermore, there is a trend among retailers in the grocery industry to reduce the overall number of products offered in their stores, which further increases competition for shelf space and makes it more difficult for us to keep existing products on the shelf and introduce new products with these retailers. Even if we do obtain shelf placement, our new and existing products may fail to achieve the sales expectations set by our retailers, potentially causing these retailers to remove our products from the shelf. As companies face more pressure for shelf space within each category, the increase in the number and quality of private label products continues to affect branded products. Gluten free private label offerings would also adversely affect our sales.In order to obtain and keep shelf placement for our products, we may need to increase our marketing and advertising spending in order to create consumer awareness, protect and grow our existing market share or to promote new products, which could impact our operating results. The inability to stay current with functional foods and gluten-free trends through new products could materially adversely affect our business performance. In addition, we constantly evaluate our product lines to determine whether or not to discontinue certain products and whether or not to stay in particular lines of business. Exiting product lines may increase our profitability but could reduce our sales, and a reduction in sales of certain products could result in a reduction in sales of other products. We cannot assure you that the discontinuation of product lines will not have an adverse effect on our business.In addition, many food retailers are caught between the rising costs of the products they sell and consumers who are demanding lower prices. We are adversely affected by efforts by retailers to increase their margins by increasing the prices of products they sell, over which we have no control, because this can result in some consumers electing to purchase lower-cost alternatives. This is compounded by a shift by retailers to using pricing departments, which are separate from their buyers/merchandisers, so we have less influence over final retailer pricing. The expanding retailer margins makes it more difficult for us to offer adequate value to the consumers and create brand loyalty. Changes in retail distribution arrangements and the trend toward less products stocked at retail can result in the loss of retail shelf space and disrupt sales of food or beverage products, which could cause our sales to fall. From time to time, retailers change distribution centers that supply some of their retail stores or change sales agencies that are responsible for stocking and maintaining food and beverage products in parts of their stores. If a new distribution center has not previously distributed our products in that region or if a sales agency is not familiar with our products, there will be a delay in a distribution center's ability to begin distributing our new products in its region or to arrange for a sales agency to represent and stock our products. If we do not get approval to have our products offered in a new distribution region or if getting this approval takes longer than anticipated, our operating results may suffer. Likewise, if we cannot establish a relationship with a sales agent to stock food or beverage products in one or a number of stores or if we temporarily lose shelf space during the time it takes to do so, our sales may decline. In addition, the trend by retailers of reducing the number and inventory of items in stock and on shelf can lead to loss of sales and less availability of our products to consumers. The food industry is highly competitive and we compete with many companies who have greater resources than us. The food industry is highly competitive and numerous multinational, regional and local firms currently compete, or are capable of competing, with us. Our products compete with branded products as well as generic and private-label products of food retailers, wholesalers and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, ability to satisfy specific consumer 22TABLE OF CONTENTSneed states (including gluten-free needs), brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising, patent protections and price. Some competitors may have different profit or strategic objectives than we do. Some competitors may invest in discounts or trade credit at a time when we are investing in new packaging and promotion, or vice versa. Competitors may develop new patentable technology which results in products which are able to compete successfully with our products. Substantial advertising and promotional expenditures are required to maintain or improve a brand's market position or to introduce a new product, and participants in our industry are engaging with new media, including customer outreach through social media and web-based vehicles. Our largest principal competitors are Unilever, ConAgra Foods, Dean Foods and Land O' Lakes, each of whom have substantially greater market presence, longer operating histories, better distribution, and greater financial, marketing, capital and other resources than us. In addition, Glutino and Udi's have many competitors in the gluten-free market, and large companies with superior resources and distributions systems, many smaller niche companies and/or private label sellers could elect to enter the gluten free market. Pricing and margins in gluten free categories may be reduced as private label and competitive activity increases. Our ability to gain or maintain market share may be limited as a result of actions by competitors or by the limited advertising and promotional resources available to us. Risks Relating to Our Secured Debt Financing In connection with our acquisition of Udi's, we entered into a new secured credit facility that significantly increased the amount of our outstanding debt. Our ability to service this increased debt load may be limited, which could force us to reduce or delay advertising and promotional expenditures, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $233 million outstanding under our credit facility. Our increased level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders, including:•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, acquisitions, expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes;•limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt;•limiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged;•subjecting us to restrictive financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries' long-term indebtedness;•exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition;•increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in pricing of our products; and•limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries.In addition, borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, the variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow.Our ability to pay interest and principal on the secured debt financing will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, due to the unprecedented weakness in the U.S. economy, our ability to pay interest and principal on the secured debt financing may depend on our customers' financial stability and their ability to pay us for their purchases in a timely fashion, or at all. Any significant default or delay in our customers' payments could result in our inability to pay interest and principal on the secured debt financing in a timely fashion. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, fund our advertising and promotional expenditures and satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include reducing or delaying advertising and promotional expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance which, in turn, is subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are obligated for any reason to repay our secured debt financing before the scheduled installment dates, we could deplete our working capital, if available, or make raising additional funds necessary. Our failure to repay the secured debt financing, if required, could result in legal action against us which could materially harm our business. 23TABLE OF CONTENTSAs of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding approximately $233 million of secured debt. Any event of default could require the early repayment of the secured debt financing in whole or in part together with accrued interest on the outstanding principal balance of the secured debt financing and any other applicable penalties, including a default interest rate. If, prior to the maturity date, we are required to repay the secured debt financing in full, we would be required to use our limited working capital and raise additional funds. If we were unable to repay the secured debt financing, and other applicable penalties, when required, our lenders could commence legal action against us to recover the amounts due. Any such action would be materially harmful to us and could require us to curtail or cease operations. The loan agreement for the secured debt financing contains covenants that significantly restrict our operations, which may negatively affect our ability to operate our business and limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. The loan agreement with respect to the secured debt financing contains numerous covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. Any other future debt agreements may contain similar covenants. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and adversely affect the conduct of our current business. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •incur more debt or issue certain equity interests;•pay dividends, redeem or purchase our equity interests or make other distributions;•make certain acquisitions or investments;•use assets as security in other transactions or otherwise create liens;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•merge or consolidate with others; and•transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiary, or use asset sale proceeds. Our failure to comply with the covenants described above could result in an event of default under the secured debt. See Item 2, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.”We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms. We may require more capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment and infrastructure, enhance and expand the range of products we offer, and respond to potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions and international expansion. We can give no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to reduce our operations or delay, limit or abandon expansion opportunities. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, the failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.24TABLE OF CONTENTS