Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of GFA If third parties bring claims against us or if GFA has breached any of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the merger agreement, we will not be indemnified for any losses arising therefrom. The merger agreement for our acquisition of GFA provides that the GFA former stockholders have no obligation to indemnify us for losses arising from a breach of the representations or warranties by GFA set forth in the merger agreement other than claims for fraud, and all representations and warranties of GFA expired at closing. Risks Associated with Our Business If we fail to meet our obligations under our principal license agreement with Brandeis University, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Approximately 74% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 were dependent upon our principal license of certain technology from Brandeis University. The licensed technology covers all Smart Balance® spreads, cheeses, shortenings and popcorn, all Earth Balance® spreads and shortenings and Nucoa soft margarine. The license agreement imposes obligations upon us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue the development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If the licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under the license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to continue to sell existing products and to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be materially adversely affected. If our license rights are restricted or ultimately lost, we could be forced to re-formulate all of the affected products noted above and refrain from making any cholesterol ratio improvement claims on our packaging, consumer advertising and promotion materials. We could also lose the ability to sub-license and receive sub-license fees for the Brandeis technology. Sub-licensing fees accounted for approximately $165,000 in income in 2007. It is difficult to accurately quantify the economic impact on us if we defaulted under our license agreement except to conclude that our ability to continue our business could be severely adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the legal protection of proprietary rights in intellectual property that we own and license. We also claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to our products and manufacturing processes. Our ability to implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to expand brand recognition using trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. If existing contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, any advantage those proprietary rights provide may be negated and the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and might prevent our brands 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult and we cannot be certain that the precautions we have taken will prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and know-how, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as adequately as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, other parties, including competitors, may duplicate our products using our proprietary technologies. Pursuing legal remedies against persons infringing on our patents or otherwise improperly using our proprietary information is a costly and time-consuming process that would divert management’s attention and other resources from the conduct of our business, which could cause delays and other problems with the marketing and sales of our products, as well as delays in deliveries. GFA has commenced legal actions against third parties infringing on the patents in the past. Most recently, GFA commenced a proceeding against C.F. Sauer Co., which was settled effective August 1, 2006 with C.F. Sauer taking a license to practice the patents licensed by us from Brandeis under certain conditions. As part of that litigation, C.F. Sauer Co. requested the re-examination of three of the patents licensed by us. All three of the licensed patents have emerged from the re-examination with all claims upheld, and we have received certificates of reexamination. There can be no assurances that we will not encounter other claims with respect to prior users of intellectual property relating to our products. If so, this could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. We rely on a combination of common law trademark rights, U.S. federal registration rights, and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We use the term “smart balance” in our trade name and in our current product line names. The terms “smart” and “balance” and variations thereof are widely used for many food and beverage products other than those sold by us. Such widespread use may weaken our trademark rights and may dilute any unique or distinctive significance the term “smart balance” may have as a means of identifying our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our trademark rights for current products or register trademarks or obtain common law trademark rights using “smart balance” for any new product lines we may introduce. On April 4, 2007, Kellogg North America Company filed a Notice of Opposition before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board opposing our registration application for the “Smart Balance Omega” mark for use with peanut butter, breakfast cereal, cereal based snack foods, oatmeal, processed oats, mayonnaise, salad dressings and tartar sauce. The inability to have the exclusive right to use of the term “Smart Balance” in new product names could weaken our ability to create a strong “Smart Balance” brand in existing and new product categories. Common law trademark rights do not provide the same level of protection as afforded by the United States federal registration of a trademark. Common law trademark rights are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used, plus a reasonable zone of future expansion, while U.S. federal registration on the Principal Register provides the registrant with superior rights throughout the United States, subject to certain exceptions. To the extent that we have registered our trademarks in foreign jurisdictions where our products are or may be sold, the protection available in such jurisdictions may not be as extensive as the protection available in the United States. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the sales of our Smart Balance® buttery spreads products and our future ability to maintain and grow our revenues depends upon continued sales of these products. Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse affect on our ability to remain profitable and achieve future growth. Approximately 63% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted from sales of our Smart Balance® buttery spreads products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to commercialize our products or that any of our products will continue to be accepted in their markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect market acceptance of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products: • the introduction of new products into the functional food market; • the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • any unfavorable publicity regarding these products or similar products; 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS • litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products; • the price of the product relative to other competing products; • any changes in government policies and practices; and • regulatory developments affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products. Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of Smart Balance® buttery spreads products could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability and achieve our business plan. We have no long-term contracts with our customers which require the purchase of a minimum amount of our products. The absence of long-term contracts could result in periods during which we must continue to pay costs and service indebtedness without current revenues. As is generally the case in the retail consumer goods industry, our customers do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. As a result of the absence of the long-term contracts, we could have periods during which we have no or only limited orders for our products, but we will continue to have to pay the costs to maintain our work force and service our indebtedness without the benefit of current revenues. We cannot assure that we will be able to timely find new customers to supplement periods where we experience no or limited purchase orders or that we can recover fixed costs as a result of experiencing reduced purchase orders. Periods of no or limited purchase orders for our products could have an adverse affect on our net income or cause us to incur losses. We are dependent on a relatively small number of significant customers, and the loss of a significant customer or significant reduction in purchase volume by any such customer could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and net income. A limited number of supermarket chains and food wholesalers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Smart Balance’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 59% of sales in 2007. Our customers typically purchase our products with standard purchase orders and, in general, are not bound by long-term contracts. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue their relationships with us. A significant reduction or loss in purchase volume from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or other major customers could have a material adverse effect on Smart Balance’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers, and the loss of a manufacturer or the inability of a manufacturer to fulfill our orders or to maintain the quality of our products could adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product or result in product recalls. Smart Balance does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and is dependent on third parties for the manufacture of its products. We currently rely on and may continue to rely on two manufacturers to produce all of our spreads. If either of our two major manufacturers were unable or unwilling to produce our products in a timely manner or to produce sufficient quantities to support our growth, if any, we would have to identify and qualify new manufacturers. As we expand our operations, we may have to seek new manufacturers and suppliers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones. However, only a limited number of manufacturers may have the ability to produce a high volume of our products, and it could take a significant period of time to locate and qualify such alternative production sources. In addition, we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or that such manufacturers could allocate sufficient capacity in order to meet our requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of product. In addition, there can be no assurance that the capacity of our current manufacturers will be sufficient to fulfill our orders and any supply shortfall could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Shipments to and from the warehouses could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including weather conditions, strikes, and shipping delays. Any significant delay in the shipments of product would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate during a particular period or periods. We have from time-to-time experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the production and delivery of product. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our manufacturers are required to maintain the quality of our products and to comply with our code book specifications and requirements for certain certifications. There can be no assurance that our manufacturers will continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards. We have occasionally received, and may from time to time receive, shipments of products that fail to conform to our standards. The failure of any manufacturer to produce products that conform to our standards could materially and adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and result in product recalls, product liability claims and severe economic loss. Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. The food processing industry in general and the functional food industry in particular are subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the functional food industry change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these trends could, among other things, lead to reduced demand and price reductions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These changes might include consumer demand for new products or formulations that include health promoting ingredients such as nutraceuticals. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences on a timely and affordable basis. We rely primarily upon one distributor to deliver our spreads products, and the inability of that distributor to make timely deliveries or support our growth could adversely affect our revenues and net income. We currently use and we may continue to use one distributor to deliver a significant portion of our spreads products from the third-party manufacturers to customers. If the distributor were unable or unwilling to deliver such products in a timely manner or to support our growth, if any, we would have to identify and qualify new distributors. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify and qualify new distributors in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our ability to make timely deliveries of our products. We continue to evaluate alternative options to our current distribution system. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs could adversely affect ours operating results. Our manufacturers obtain most of the key ingredients used in our products from third-party suppliers. As with most food products, the availability and cost of raw materials used in our products can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions affecting growing decisions, weather conditions such as frosts, drought, and floods, and plant diseases, pests and other acts of nature. Because we do not control the production of raw materials, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production of materials based on conditions not within our control. Such conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. There can be no assurance that our manufacturers will be able to obtain alternative sources of raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, if any of them experience supply shortages. The inability of our manufacturers to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices, or at all, as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could cause an increase in our cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin, or cause our sales and earnings to fluctuate from period to period. Such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our advertising is regulated for accuracy, and if our advertising is determined to be false or misleading, we may face fines or sanctions. Our advertising is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits dissemination of false or misleading advertising. In addition, the National Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc., which we refer to as NAD, administers a self-regulatory program of the advertising industry to ensure truth and accuracy in national advertising. NAD both monitors national advertising and entertains inquiries and challenges from competing companies and consumers. Should our advertising be determined to be false or misleading, we may have to withdraw our campaign and possibly face fines or sanctions, which could have a material adverse affect on our sales and operating results. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Adverse publicity or consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns may result in loss of sales. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety, quality and possible dietary benefits of our products. As a result, substantial negative publicity concerning one or more of our products or other foods and beverages similar to our products could lead to a loss of consumer confidence in our products, removal of our products from retailers’ shelves and reduced sales and prices of our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we conduct operations in a market segment that suffers a loss in consumer confidence as to the safety and quality of food and beverage products, our business could be adversely affected. The food industry has recently been subject to negative publicity concerning the health implications of genetically modified organisms, obesity, trans fatty acids, diacetyl, mad cow disease, avian flu and bacterial contamination. Developments in any of these areas including, but not limited to, a negative perception about our proprietary formulations, could cause our operating results to differ materially from expected results. Any of these events could harm our sales and our operating results, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to the Food and Beverage Industries Our business operations may be subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, exposing us to potential claims and compliance costs that could adversely affect our operations. Manufacturers and marketers of food and beverage products are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, which we refer to as the FDA, the United States Department of Agriculture, which we refer to as the USDA, and other national, state and local authorities. For example, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and its regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of foods and beverages. Under this act, the FDA regulates manufacturing practices for foods and beverages through its current “good manufacturing practices” regulations, and imposes ingredient specifications and requirements for many foods and beverages. Additionally, the USDA has adopted regulations with respect to a national organic labeling and certification program which were effective February 20, 2001 and fully implemented on October 21, 2002. Food and beverage manufacturing facilities and products are also subject to periodic inspection by federal, state and local authorities. Any changes in laws and regulations applicable to food and beverage products could increase the cost of developing and distributing our products and otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, which would adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of food or beverage products manufactured or marketed by us cause injury, illness or death. Regardless of whether such claims against us are valid, they may be expensive to defend and may generate negative publicity, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. The sale of food and beverage products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues introduced during production processes. Although we believe that we and our manufacturers are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if the consumption of our products causes or is alleged to have caused an illness in the future, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding an illness, injury or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate image and operating results. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this nature might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have. While we have product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be adequate, we cannot be sure that claims or liabilities will be asserted for which adequate insurance will be available or that such claims or liabilities will not exceed the available amount of insurance coverage. Our food or beverage products may also experience product tampering, contamination or spoilage or be mislabeled or otherwise damaged. Under certain circumstances a product recall could be initiated, leading to a 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS material adverse effect on our operations and operating results. Recalls, though not mandated by the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, may be required nonetheless to avoid seizures or civil or criminal litigation. Even if such a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims could be asserted against us. A products liability judgment or a product recall involving us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We are also heavily dependent on our manufacturers for compliance with sound and lawful production of our products. Therefore, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations, which could have a detrimental effect on our performance. A judgment that is significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which could adversely affect our results. The food processing industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products as well as disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results. Slotting fees and customer charges or charge-backs for promotion allowances, cooperative advertising and damaged, undelivered or unsold food or beverage products may have a significant impact on our operating results and may disrupt customer relationships on which we depend. Retailers in the grocery industry charge slotting fees for access to shelf space and often enter into promotional and advertising arrangements with distributors and manufacturers that result in the sharing of promotional and advertising costs among the retailer, distributor and/or manufacturer. As the retail grocery industry has consolidated and become more competitive, retailers have sought greater participation by distributors and manufacturers in cooperative promotional and advertising arrangements, and are more inclined to pass on unanticipated increases in promotional and advertising costs to distributors and manufacturers. Additionally, retailers are exhibiting a greater willingness to take deductions for damaged, undelivered and unsold products or to return unsold products to distributors and manufacturers. The vast majority of distributors, including us, and manufacturers sell their food and beverage products to retailers without a right of return, however, the presence of only a small number of retailers may have the practical effect of requiring distributors and manufacturers to accept returns even if their policies do not obligate them to do so. If we are charged significant and unanticipated promotional allowances or advertising charges by retailers, or if our customers take substantial charge-backs or return material amounts of food or beverage products, our operating results and liquidity could be harmed substantially. Moreover, an unresolved disagreement with a retailer concerning promotional allowances, advertising charges, charge-backs or returns could significantly disrupt or cause the termination of a customer relationship, immediately reducing our sales and liquidity. Because of the limited number of retailers in the U.S. grocery market, the loss of even a single retailer could have a long-term negative impact on our financial condition and revenues. Changes in retail distribution arrangements can result in the temporary loss of retail shelf space and disrupt sales of food or beverage products, which could cause our sales to fall. From time to time, retailers change distribution centers that supply some of their retail stores or change sales agencies that are responsible for stocking and maintaining food and beverage products in parts of their stores. If a new distribution center has not previously distributed our products in that region or if a sales agency is not familiar with our products, there will be a delay in a distribution center’s ability to begin distributing new products in its region or to arrange for a sales agency to represent and stock our products. Even if a retailer approves the distribution of products in a new region, product sales may decline while the transition in distribution or sales arrangements takes place. If we do not get approval to have our products offered in a new distribution region or if getting this approval takes longer than anticipated, our operating results may 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS suffer. Likewise, if we cannot establish a relationship with a sales agent to stock food or beverage products in one or a number of stores or if we temporarily lose shelf space during the time it takes to do so, our sales may decline. Risks Relating to Our Secured Debt Financing Our secured debt financing has resulted in substantial leverage. Our ability to service and refinance the debt may be limited, which could force us to reduce or delay advertising and promotional expenditures, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. As part of the merger with GFA, we obtained secured loans in the amount of $180 million, including a $20 million revolving credit facility. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders, including: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service and will not be available for other purposes, including the declaration and payment of cash dividends; • our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; and • our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry and economic conditions generally. Our ability to pay interest and principal on the secured debt financing will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and advertising and promotional expenditures, to sustain operations and to service our interest and principal requirements as they become due. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our advertising and promotional expenditures, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include reducing or delaying advertising and promotional expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance which, in turn, is subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are obligated for any reason to repay our secured debt financing before the scheduled installment dates, we could deplete our working capital, if available, or make raising additional funds necessary. Our failure to repay the secured debt financing, if required, could result in legal action against us which could materially harm our business. As of December 31, 2007, we have outstanding approximately $119 million of secured debt. Any event of default could require the early repayment of the secured debt financing in whole or in part at a redemption premium together with accrued interest on the outstanding principal balance of the secured debt financing and any other applicable penalties, including a default interest rate. If, prior to the maturity date, we are required to repay the secured debt financing in full, we would be required to use our limited working capital and raise additional funds. If we were unable to repay the secured debt financing, together with the applicable redemption premium and other applicable penalties, when required, our lenders could commence legal action against us to recover the amounts due. Any such action would be materially harmful to us and could require us to curtail or cease operations. The loan agreement for the secured debt financing contains covenants that significantly restrict our operations, which may negatively affect our ability to operate our business and limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. The loan agreements with respect to the secured debt financing contain numerous covenants imposing financial and operating restrictions on our business. Any other future debt agreements may contain similar covenants. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and adversely affect the conduct of our current business. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur more debt or issue certain equity interests; • pay dividends, redeem or purchase our equity interests or make other distributions; • make certain acquisitions or investments; • use assets as security in other transactions or otherwise create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with others; and • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiary, or use asset sale proceeds. Additionally, our failure to comply with our debt-related obligations with respect to the secured debt financing could result in an event of default under the secured debt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding December 31, 2007 that remain unresolved. 