D. Risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and if we fail to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent or detect fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. We are a company incorporated in Korea. Prior to our initial public offering in December 2005, we had reported our financial statements under generally accepted accounting principles in Korea, or Korean GAAP, and were subject only to minimum corporate governance and reporting standards applicable to unlisted companies in Korea. We have identified certain material weaknesses, as defined under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), in our ability to support the financial reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant. During our audit process, we discovered errors in the unaudited financial data for 2005 previously publicly announced in February 2006. We notified the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors of the potential errors, and the Audit Committee conducted its own independent review. As a result of 5 Table of Contents this review, management and the Audit Committee determined that certain errors had occurred which principally affected the timing of revenue recognition for certain sales and the accounting for our investment in PTI. As a result of such review, we have specifically identified the following material weaknesses: • We did not retain accounting staff with sufficient depth and skill in the application of U.S. GAAP commensurate with the reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant. • We did not have adequate internal review procedures and effective controls over establishing and maintaining accounting policies, consistent with the U.S. GAAP, specifically related to revenue recognition, valuation of accounts receivable, valuation of inventory, accounting for share-based compensation and consolidation accounting. • As part of our financial statement close process, we rely heavily on spreadsheet programs to generate our financial records and data. Additionally, we do not have the appropriate controls over the output from these spreadsheets to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement or other inaccuracies resulting from computational or other output errors. • We did not maintain an adequate periodic reconciliation process for transactions and balances between our subsidiaries, equity investees and third party contractors. Although our management is currently executing a range of actions to address the weaknesses identified by us and our auditors in our internal controls and financial reporting procedures, including hiring qualified management personnel and implementing an enterprise accounting system to support U.S. GAAP reporting, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Since we are now a publicly-traded company on Nasdaq and subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are now subject to more stringent obligations than those previously applicable to us. If we fail to create an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent errors or fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. See Item 15 of this annual report, “Controls and Procedures,” for additional discussion of the material weaknesses. We have been named as defendant in certain litigation regarding intellectual property infringement, which could divert management attention, be costly and time-consuming to defend and prevent us from using the challenged technology and selling some or all of our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We are currently a defendant in ongoing litigation matters regarding intellectual property infringement as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” Although we believe that these claims are invalid and our cancellation proceedings will be successful, if the relevant patents held by MagnaChip Semiconductor, Ltd., or MagnaChip, are found to be valid and we are held to have infringed those patents, all of our products and our core technology could be held to be infringing MagnaChip’s patents. In such an event, we may be required to pay substantial damages and develop alternative non-infringing intellectual property or enter into intellectual license agreements with MagnaChip which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If such intellectual property were to become unavailable, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Protracted litigation could also cause our customers, or potential customers, to defer or limit the purchase of our products until the resolution of such litigation. In addition, MagnaChip may seek to obtain an injunction to prevent us from selling our products or using technology that employs the allegedly infringing intellectual property. 6 Table of Contents In addition, other companies may pursue litigation against us with respect to other claims in the future. An adverse result in any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights may cause us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability for damages, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully infringed, and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be expensive to resolve and could divert management’s time and attention. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could also result in significant expenses and the diversion of the attention of our management and technical personnel. Although we take, and will continue to take, steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe third party intellectual property rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that other claims alleging infringement of third party rights may be brought against us which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in certain shareholder class action litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We are currently a defendant in ongoing shareholder class action litigation as described in Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of the shareholder class action litigation. An unfavorable outcome from these litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. We depend on a few key customers to generate a majority of our revenues, and if any key customer was to discontinue, significantly reduce or delay or cancel its purchases of our products, or become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, our revenues could be significantly reduced. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from a relatively small number of customers. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 97%, 79% and 63% of our revenues in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In addition, our business with Sharp Corporation, or Sharp, through our services arrangement with DongbuAnam Semiconductor Inc., or DongbuAnam, accounted for 38.5% of our total CMOS image sensor unit volume and 6.8% of our total revenues in 2005. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company—Business overview—Services.” In the event one or more of our top customers were to delay or cancel their production of products incorporating our CMOS image sensors or reduce or discontinue their dealings with us, we could suffer a significant decline in revenues. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company—Business overview—Customers.” In addition, our customers conduct business in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries, such as mobile communications and consumer electronics. If any of our customers were to become insolvent or declare bankruptcy, we could be forced to write off related accounts receivables which were booked as revenues. For example, two of our top ten customers in 2004 based on revenues, Maxon Telecom Co., Ltd., or Maxon, and Telson Electronics Co., Ltd., or Telson, experienced financial difficulties in the second quarter of 2004 and are undergoing reorganization and bankruptcy, respectively. The total current receivable amount outstanding from Maxon is approximately (Won)1,212 million. We cannot guarantee when or if we will recover any of such outstanding amounts. In addition, we have written off the entire amount of receivables payable to us from Telson, which totaled (Won)191 million. See Item 8 of this annual report, “Financial Information—Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” 7 Table of Contents Intense competition from larger and more established CMOS image sensor manufacturers could reduce our market share, our revenues and our profits. The CMOS image sensor market is very competitive and is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving standards, short product life cycles and decreasing prices. As a result, we are not able to assess our exact competitive position relative to our main competitors. We face competition from well-established companies, such as MagnaChip, Micron Technology Inc., or Micron, OmniVision Technologies, Inc., or OmniVision, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Toshiba Corporation, that sell highly-integrated single chip CMOS image sensors, as well as from other competitors. We expect competition in the CMOS image sensor market to continue to increase. For our higher-end image sensors, such as our planned 3.2 megapixel product, we also expect to compete with CCD image sensor manufacturers, such as Sony Corporation. Compared to us, many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, stronger name recognition, more established access to a large customer base and significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and technical resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, or price their products more aggressively and competitively than us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not seriously harm our business by reducing our market share, our revenues and our profits. See Item 4 of this annual report, “Information on the Company—Business overview—Competition,” for additional information about our competitors and competition in our market. Continuing declines in our average sales prices may result in declines in our gross margins and profits. The CMOS image sensor market is characterized by intense price competition. As a result, we have experienced market driven pricing pressures and a decline in average sales prices for our products, which we expect will continue in the future. For example, from 2004 to 2005, the average sales price for our video graphic array, or VGA, image sensors, our top selling product for those periods, declined by approximately 59%. Our competitors, such as Micron and OmniVision, have significantly greater financial resources to withstand pricing pressures and declining margins. If we are unable to offset declining average sales prices by achieving manufacturing cost efficiencies, developing new products incorporating more advanced technology or adding new features, our gross margins and profits will decline. If we cannot develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not generate sufficient revenues to offset our initial product design, development, production and marketing costs, and our gross margins and profitability will decline. The development of new CMOS image sensors is highly complex, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products in the past. As our products integrate new and more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design. Our future ability to develop and introduce new products depends on a number of factors, including: • our accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, pixel size, power requirements, optical size and other special features; • our timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • our successful partnerships with foundries to achieve timely and high manufacturing yields; and • market acceptance of our new products and consumer acceptance of our customers’ end-products which incorporate our CMOS image sensors. If we cannot successfully develop and introduce new CMOS image sensors, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset our costs, and our gross margins and profitability will decline. 8 Table of Contents We may not accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need, and therefore we may not be able to react to fluctuations in demand for our products, which could result in unsold inventory, lower revenues and declines in our gross margins. We forecast customer demand based on a number of factors, including customer data, market intelligence and historical data. However, accurate forecasting is a difficult process because actual customer demand often varies from customer data and projections, unexpected events occur, market intelligence can be wrong and historical data may not be reliable due to the relatively short history of the CMOS image sensor industry. It is critical that we accurately forecast customer demand and the number of wafers we need because if customer demand falls below our forecasts, we may be required to retain excess wafer inventories, which could increase our operating expenses and reduce our gross margins. In addition, rapid market driven declines in the value of image sensors may result in inventory write-downs, if the estimated realizable value for our goods in inventory is determined to be below our cost and the number of units on hand is determined to exceed the number of units that we had forecasted to sell over a certain period of time. As a result of unsold lower grade image sensors, canceled orders from financially-troubled customers, unsold image sensors manufactured in anticipation of future orders and a rapid decline in the value of our goods in inventory, we recognized a loss on valuation of inventory of (Won)7,349 million and (Won)2,673 million (US$2.6 million) in 2004 and 2005, respectively. See Item 5 of this annual report, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Inventory Loss” for additional information about our cost of revenues and loss on valuation of inventory. If we are unable to more accurately forecast product demand, we face a higher risk of excess inventory and product obsolescence, which could increase our cost of revenue and reduce our gross margins. We also may not meet customers’ demands in a timely manner. Because we depend on a single wafer foundry to manufacture all of our products, we have less control over the wafer manufacturing process and the allocation of manufacturing capacity. If our current wafer foundry experiences any disruption, we may not be able to find a replacement foundry. This dependence may limit our ability to respond promptly to increased customer demands, which could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations delays and costs, harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Currently, we rely on DongbuAnam, located in Korea, to produce all of our integrated circuit wafers. Although we entered into a manufacturing outsource agreement in November 2005 with United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, we expect our reliance on DongbuAnam to continue until the end of 2006. We are still at a testing phase with UMC and expect to commence the actual manufacturing of our products at the time we release our 0.13 µm process technology based CMOS image sensors, currently scheduled to be in the second half of 2006. Our current reliance on DongbuAnam involves a number of significant risks, including: • the sudden loss of all manufacturing services; • the lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; • reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • unavailability of, or delayed access to, next generation or key process technologies. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with DongbuAnam. Instead, we secure manufacturing capacity on a rolling six-month forecast and purchase order basis. DongbuAnam has no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order based on our rolling six-month forecast. Our requirements represent a small portion of DongbuAnam’s total manufacturing capacity, and it may reallocate capacity to more preferred customers during periods of high demand. 9 Table of Contents If our independent foundries are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to continue to manufacture our wafers in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. As a result, we would have to identify and qualify one or more substitute foundries, a time-consuming and complex process that could result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations delays and costs. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases, we may be required to incur additional production costs to secure access to alternative manufacturing services, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields and quality. If we fail to meet our wafer supply requirements in the future, our ability to win large customer orders and respond promptly to any increase in demand could be adversely affected, which could harm our relationships with our key customers and lower our future revenues. Problems with wafer manufacturing yields or back-end processing yields could increase our product costs and lower our gross margins. If our independent wafer foundries cannot achieve the high yields we expect, our per unit costs will increase and our product availability will decrease. Wafer yields are a function both of our design technology and the particular foundry’s manufacturing process technology. Low yields may result from design errors or manufacturing failures. Unlike many other semiconductor products, optical products can be effectively tested only at the end of the manufacturing process. Accordingly, we perform a final test of our products only after they are assembled. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until our products are well into the production process. For example, we experienced lower yields during a period from the fourth quarter of 2004 to the first quarter of 2005 due to hardware upgrades at DongbuAnam. The risks associated with low yields are exacerbated because we rely on a single independent wafer foundry and have only recently engaged an alternative foundry. In addition to wafer manufacturing yields, our products are subject to yield loss in subsequent manufacturing steps, often referred to as back-end processing, such as dicing, cutting the wafer into individual devices, or die, and packaging. Any of these potential problems with wafer manufacturing or back-end processing yields could increase our unit costs and lower our gross margins. If the mobile camera phone market fails to grow and develop as we anticipate, our future revenues and profits could decline. We derived approximately 97.0% and 92.0% of our revenues from the mobile camera phone market in each of 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our current business model and our future success depend in large part on the continued growth of the mobile camera phone market. If the mobile camera phone market does not grow as anticipated, or if demand for our image sensors in this market decreases, our future revenues and profits could decline. We have a limited number of patents and pending patent applications compared to our competitors, and we may be unable to protect adequately our existing intellectual property, which could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and profits. Compared to our well-established competitors, we have a relatively limited number of patents and pending patent applications. We cannot assure you that our limited number of patents, combined with trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective methods, will be effective in protecting our proprietary technologies. We currently have six patents issued in Korea and five patents issued outside of Korea, and 22 patent applications pending in Korea and two patent applications pending in China and Japan. We cannot assure you that any patent application will be successful or, if a patent is issued, that it will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. To minimize this risk, we may need to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement, and we may lose our competitive advantage before we detect any such infringement, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and profits. 10 Table of Contents Furthermore, our limited number of patents and pending patent applications may limit our ability to compete effectively against our competitors with larger patent portfolios or defend against any patent infringement claims brought by those competitors. Our competitors may have developed or may develop technologies that are protected by patents, thereby making those technologies unavailable to us or available only under unfavorable terms and conditions. We may not be able to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights. Although our products are generally protected through patents and other forms of intellectual property rights protection, our ability to enforce those rights may vary substantially in both degree and quality among the various jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, and we may be unable to enforce our rights in a timely manner. See “—Risks Related to Specific Countries—The uncertain legal environment in China could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and generate revenues in China.” We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the CMOS image sensor industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and profits. We rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in our business. We enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally provide that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment or consulting relationship, and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship, is our exclusive property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with each of our independent contractors to ensure that all of our confidential or proprietary information made known to the contractor during the term of the relationship is protected and not disclosed or used without our authorization. However, we cannot assure the enforceability of these types of agreements, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of our confidentiality agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the CMOS image sensor industry. In addition, effective trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in certain foreign countries where we conduct our business, such as in China, which could further adversely affect our competitive position in those countries. See “—Risks Related to Specific Countries—The uncertain legal environment in China could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and generate revenues in China.” We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and our failure to maintain profitability in the future could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. We incurred a net loss of (Won)4,065 million in 2004 and recognized net income of only (Won)979 million (US$1.0 million) in 2005. In the future, we expect our research and development expenses to increase as we develop new products. In addition, we expect our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as we hire additional personnel and open new sales and representative offices outside Korea. If our costs and expenses exceed our revenues, we may incur net losses and may not maintain profitability in the future. Our failure to maintain profitability could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. 11 Table of Contents Our business depends on the growth of emerging applications for CMOS technology, and any delay in the growth of emerging applications could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and earnings. Our business strategy depends on the growth of various markets in which our CMOS image sensors are used. The following factors may delay the emergence of new markets for our products, any of which could impact our ability to grow or sustain our future revenues and earnings: • the failure of the emergence of a universal platform for imaging solutions for various consumer and industrial emerging applications relating to automobiles, biometrics, pattern recognition, medical devices, security and surveillance systems and toys; • the failure to develop user-friendly and affordable new products using CMOS image sensors or the lack of market acceptance of such new products; and • the development of alternative technology, such as the hybrid image sensor technology combining CMOS and CCD technologies, and improvements in or price reductions for CCD image sensors. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance and may result in volatility in the market price of our ADSs. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors related to how we manage our business and other industry-related factors. These factors, many of which are more fully discussed in other risk factors, include: • our ability to introduce, market and sell new products; • our ability to realize acceptable margins from product sales; • the ability of our third party foundries to achieve and maintain high manufacturing yields, especially for new products; • the ability of our contractors to provide manufacturing, testing, packaging and assembly services at competitive rates; • the growth rate of the mobile camera phone market and emergence of other applications for our CMOS image sensors; • the timing and amount of orders from our customers, including order delays in anticipation of new products or enhancements by us or our competitors; • our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; • our gain or loss of a large customer and a design win or loss from a potential large customer; • quarterly fluctuation in the demand for mobile phone production; and • the announcement and introduction of competing products and technologies. In addition, our introduction of new products and changes in our product mix may continue to affect our gross margins and quarterly operating results. These factors are difficult to forecast and could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate which could in turn adversely affect the price of our ADSs in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Due to the potential volatility of our ADS price, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that our quarterly operating results will at times fall below the expectations of security analysts and investors. In such event, our ADS price will likely decrease. 12 Table of Contents Failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and improve our earnings. We are experiencing a period of significant growth that will continue to place a great strain on our management and other resources. We have grown from 6 employees in April 2000 to 119 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2005 and expect to grow by another 20 employees by the second half of 2006. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: • implement and improve operational, financial and internal control systems; • implement employee training programs and facilitate integration; • attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience; and • expand our sales and marketing, research and development and administrative support personnel. We must also manage a growing number of relationships with customers, business partners, international and domestic sales agents and other third parties, such as wafer foundries and testing, packaging and assembly vendors. Our growth may significantly overburden our management and financial systems and other resources. We also cannot assure you that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion. If our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and we are not able to expand quickly enough to capitalize on potential market opportunities, our future growth could be adversely affected and our future revenues will be reduced. Unforeseen operational delays by our third party contractors in testing, packaging, and assembling our products can impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. We depend on independent contractors for testing and packaging of our CMOS image sensors and for assembly of our camera modules. We do not receive service or capacity guarantees from our third-party contractors. Instead, we obtain services from them on a purchase order basis. Our reliance on these third-party contractors involves risks, such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. These risks could result in product shortages or could increase our manufacturing, testing or packaging costs. If these contractors are unable or unwilling to continue to provide testing and packaging services or fail to deliver products of acceptable quality at an acceptable cost and in a timely manner, our business would be seriously harmed. We would have to identify and qualify substitute contractors, which could be costly, time-consuming and difficult, particularly given the limited number of alternative contractors providing the services we need. Any such unforeseen operational delays could impact our ability to fulfill customer orders in time and ultimately harm our relationship with our customers and lower our revenues. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts and sales and marketing strategies could be delayed, which could reduce our future revenues and profitability. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued contributions of our key management, technical and sales personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of one or more of these employees could seriously harm our business. We have no agreements that obligate our employees to continue working for us. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical personnel, particularly analog or mixed signal design engineers, as well as sales, marketing, finance and management personnel. In particular, as CMOS image sensors have been recently commercialized, there are a limited number of engineering experts in this sector. Intense competition for qualified personnel has made retaining our key personnel and recruiting new qualified personnel a challenge and may result in increased compensation costs. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our product development efforts and sales and marketing strategies could be negatively affected, which could reduce our future revenues and profitability. 13 Table of Contents As a growing percentage of our products are manufactured and sold outside of Korea, we will face foreign business, political and economic risks that could result in inefficiencies and increased costs, as well as lower revenues and reduced profitability. Exports accounted for approximately 30.5% and 74.1% of our revenues in 2004 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate that exports will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. As we expand our overseas operations, we may further increase our reliance on third-party contractors for manufacturing, testing, packaging and assembly of our products, a significant portion of which may be conducted outside of Korea. In addition, our customers are located in China, Japan, Taiwan, Europe and the United States. Accordingly, we will be subject to increased foreign risks, including risks related to: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • monitoring compliance with local laws; • managing third party foundries and contractors; • managing sales agents and distributors; and • collecting accounts receivables from foreign customers. Any of these factors could result in inefficiencies and increased costs of conducting business outside of Korea and reduce our revenues and profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Approximately 98% of our revenues in 2005 were denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately 78% of our selling, general and administrative expenses and 22% of our cost of revenues in 2005 were denominated in Korean Won. As a result, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Korean Won will decrease our revenues and increase the costs of making and selling our products, leading to a reduction in operating margin and profitability. To date, we have not engaged in any foreign currency hedging activities to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We may enter into hedging transactions in the future to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks, but we may not be able to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner or at all. We may be considered a passive foreign investment company, which could lead to additional taxes for U.S. holders of our ADSs. Special U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. holders of shares of a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The determination of our PFIC status principally depends upon the composition of our assets, including goodwill, and the amount and nature of our income, from time to time. The amount of goodwill will depend in part on the market value of our ADSs or common shares, which may be especially volatile for a technology-related enterprise such as ours. We have limited control over these variables. Although we do not believe we were a PFIC in 2005, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC during any year of a U.S. holder’s holding period with respect to our ADSs or common shares, the U.S. holder will generally be required to treat certain excess distributions and any gain on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs or common shares as ordinary income and an interest charge may also apply, unless the U.S. holder makes a mark-to-market election. For a more detailed description of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the ownership of our ADSs and common shares, please see Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information—Taxation.” 14 Table of Contents We may be required to take significant actions that are contrary to our business objectives in order to avoid being deemed an investment company as defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Generally, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act, provides that a company is not an investment company and is not required to register under the Investment Company Act as an investment company if: • the company is primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities, and • 40% or less of the fair market value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities. We are primarily engaged, directly and through our subsidiaries, in the business of designing, developing and marketing CMOS image sensors and camera modules, and believe that currently less than 40% of the fair market value of our total assets is represented by investment securities. Consequently, we believe that we are not an investment company as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act. However, in the future, we may be required to take actions to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company, such as shifting a significant portion of our long- and short-term investment portfolio into low-yielding bank deposits or other short-term securities which are not considered to be investment securities due to their liquidity and certain other characteristics. These types of investments may reduce the amount of interest or other income that we could otherwise generate from investment activities. We may need to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or forego opportunities to acquire minority interests in companies that could be important to our strategy. In addition, we hold minority equity interests in PTI and Tesna Co., Ltd., or Tesna. If the value of these investment securities increases in the future, we may need to dispose some or all of these investment securities to avoid being deemed an investment company. Regulations adopted under the Investment Company Act also impose limitations on the activities of investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations, transactions with affiliates and other matters, any of which would be incompatible with our operations as currently conducted. If we were to be deemed an investment company in the future, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making public offerings in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment Restrictions on currency exchange in certain of the jurisdictions in which our products are distributed may limit our ability to receive and remit revenues effectively, which would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. The governments in certain jurisdictions in which our products are distributed, including China and Taiwan, impose controls on the convertibility of the local currency into foreign currencies and, in some cases, the external remittance of currency. Under current foreign exchange transaction regulations, shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our overseas customers to make payments to us in U.S. dollars. Restrictions on our ability to receive payments from our overseas customers would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. The discontinuation of any of our preferential Korean tax treatment could materially reduce our net income. Under Korean law and regulations, a small- and medium-sized venture company may be entitled to enjoy preferential tax treatment from the Korean government in the form of a 50% reduction in corporate income tax rates for the year in which it first generates taxable income and the following five years if the company satisfies a 15 Table of Contents number of financial and non-financial criteria, including the maintenance of its status as a designated venture company. We first generated taxable income in 2003, and we were subject to a reduced tax rate of 14.85% for 2003 and 2004. For 2005, the reduced rate of 14.85% has been further reduced to 13.75% due to a reduction in the statutory tax rate from 29.7% to 27.5%. We expect to be qualified for this reduced tax rate until December 31, 2008, subject to our continuing need to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria, including maintenance of our status as a venture company. Our status as a venture company is subject to evaluation and renewal in November of each year and there is no guarantee that we will qualify for the renewal in the future. If we fail to so qualify, our tax rate will increase to the standard tax rate. The discontinuation of this preferential tax treatment could lead to a material reduction in our net income. See Item 5 of this annual report, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Income Tax Expenses.” Risks Related to Specific Countries Increased tensions with North Korea could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea, as well as between North Korea and the United States, has increased as a result of a public announcement in February 2005 that North Korea possesses nuclear weapons and has declared that it will not participate in the six-party talks with Korea, the United States, China, Japan and Russia. In July 2005, North Korea returned to the six-party talks and held bilateral talks with the United States to discuss the issue of nuclear weapons. In September 2005, the six parties reached an accord, under which North Korea pledged to give up nuclear weapons and abandon existing nuclear programs in exchange for economic assistance and security assurances from the United States. However, obstacles are expected to remain as to the interpretation and implementation of the accord. There can be no assurance that the level of tensions will not escalate. We derived 69.5% and 25.9% of our revenues in 2004 and 2005, respectively, from our customers located in Korea. Although we do not derive any revenue from, and do not sell any of our products in, North Korea, any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic, political or social developments or a decrease in domestic demand in China could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products and our future revenues. We derived 21.4% and 61.7% of our revenues in 2004 and 2005, respectively, from our customers located in China. Accordingly, our operating results and financial condition are affected by economic, political, social and legal developments in China, as well as changes in the demand for our CMOS image sensors by customers in China. We cannot predict the future direction of the economic reform measures that have been adopted by the PRC government or the effects these measures may have on our business, results of operations or financial position. In addition, China’s economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. 16 Table of Contents As a result of these differences, our business and the businesses of our customers in China may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if China’s economy were similar to those of other OECD member countries. In addition, there can be no assurance that any growth in China’s economy will be stable or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business; that deflation will not reoccur in the foreseeable future; or that the level of international trade to and from China will not cease to grow at historical rates or even decrease, which could negatively impact demand for our products. Finally, our PRC customers’ business and our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected by adverse changes in government monetary policies, import-export polices and regulations, tax regulations or policies and regulations affecting the high technology industry. Most recently, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates and placing additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, in order to slow down growth in certain segments of its economy it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could result in a reduction in international trade activities involving China, which could in turn reduce the demand for our CMOS image sensors and reduce our future revenues. The uncertain legal environment in China could adversely affect our ability to provide our products and generate revenues in China. A significant portion of our business comes from our customers in China. To serve such customers and future customers in China, we established Pixelplus Shanghai Ltd. in September 2004 to serve as our sales and marketing headquarters in China. Pixelplus Shanghai Ltd. is wholly-owned by Pixelplus Asia Co., Limited, our Hong Kong holding company, which in turn is wholly-owned by us. Somewhat similar to Korea, the legal system of China is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system of the United States, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In recent years, the PRC government has promulgated a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. As a result, the legal protections available to foreign investors and entities, including you and us, such as the right of foreign-invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits for customs-related business, and approvals necessary to conduct our business in China, are uncertain and, to a large degree, untested. As the PRC legal system matures, changes in its legislation or interpretation of its legislation may adversely affect our ability to provide our products and generate revenues in China. Disruptions in Taiwan’s political environment could seriously harm the businesses of our customers in Taiwan and, in turn, our results of operations in Taiwan. The government of China asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan, and does not recognize the legitimacy of the government of Taiwan. The government of China has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan if Taiwan declares independence or a foreign power interferes in Taiwan’s internal affairs. On March 14, 2005, the government of China passed an anti-secession law which provides that in the event that the “Taiwan independence” secessionist forces should act to cause Taiwan’s secession from China, or any major incident causing Taiwan’s secession from China should occur, or that possibilities for a peaceful reunification should be completely exhausted, China will employ non-peaceful means and other necessary measures to protect China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. In 2005, we derived approximately 5.3% of our total revenues from our customers in Taiwan. Deterioration of the relationship between Taiwan and China, and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political environment, may materially and adversely affect our Taiwanese customers’ businesses and, in turn, our results of operations in Taiwan. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, and the value of your investment in our ADSs may decrease. The market price for our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth elsewhere in this section, as well as: • our financial results; • the history of, and the prospects for, us and our industry in which we compete; • an assessment of our management, our past and present operations, and the prospects for, and timing of, our future revenues and cost structures; • the present state of our development; or • the valuation of other publicly-traded companies in our industry. In addition, from time to time, Nasdaq has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies. As a result, investors in our ADSs may experience a decrease in the value of our ADSs regardless of our operating performance or prospects. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of our senior management, and an adverse ruling could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which could reduce our net income. We are a company incorporated in Korea and operate in a business and cultural environment that is different from that of the United States. Unlike certain other Korean companies currently listed on Nasdaq, we are not a public company in Korea. As such, we are not subject to any public reporting requirements and we are subject only to minimum corporate governance and reporting standards applicable to unlisted companies in Korea. As a public company listed on Nasdaq, we will be subject to the reporting obligations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, which many consider to be more stringent, rigorous and expensive than those of Korea. As a result, we will incur greater costs for legal, accounting and other services than we have incurred as a private company. We will also incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, or NASD. We expect these rules and regulations will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, will make some compliance activities more time-consuming and costly and, in turn, will increase our operating expenses and reduce our net income. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our ADSs. The SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, a public company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the 18 Table of Contents effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for 2006. In connection with the audit of our financial statements, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain material weaknesses in our finance team’s ability to support the financial reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant. See “—Risks Related to Our Business—We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls and if we fail to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent or detect fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected.” If we are not able to properly address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a qualified report. In addition, during the course of such evaluation, documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remedy in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Any of these outcomes could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. The holders of our common shares and our ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws and regulations governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. Under applicable Korean law, a shareholder must own at least: • 1% of a company’s total issued shares to bring a shareholders’ derivative lawsuit; • 3% to demand an extraordinary meeting of shareholders, demand removal of directors or inspect the books and related documents of a company; and • 10% to apply to the court for dissolution if there is gross improper management or a deadlock in corporate affairs likely to result in significant and irreparable injury to the company or to apply to the court for reorganization in the case of an insolvency. In addition, while the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Although the concept of the “business judgment rule” exists in Korea, there is insufficient case law or precedent to provide guidance to the management and shareholders as to how it should be applied or interpreted in a particular circumstance. Holders of our ADSs may have more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholder than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Any dividend paid on our common shares will be in Korean Won, and fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar may affect the amount of any dividend received by you. If and when we declare cash dividends, the dividends will be paid to the depositary in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Korean Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the U.S. dollar amounts you receive from the depositary as dividends. Holders of ADSs may not receive dividends if the depositary does not believe it is reasonable or practicable to do so. In addition, the depositary may collect certain fees and expenses, at the sole discretion of the depositary, by billing the holders of ADSs for such charges or by deducting such charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions we distribute to holders of our ADSs. 19 Table of Contents Your ability to deposit or withdraw common shares into and from the depositary facility may be limited, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of our common shares may deposit such shares with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of our ADSs may surrender the ADSs to the depositary and receive our common shares. However, to the extent that a deposit of common shares exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of common shares we have consented to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs, including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs; and • the number of common shares on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common shares will not be accepted for deposit unless our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained or our consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations or under the terms of the deposit agreement. As an ADS holder, you will not be treated as our shareholder, and you may be unable to exercise preemptive rights, voting rights or appraisal rights as a holder of our common shares do. Under the Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation, our shareholders have (i) the preemptive rights to subscribe for new common shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentages whenever we issue new common shares (except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation), (ii) voting rights, and (iii) dissent and appraisal rights to require us to purchase their common shares in some limited circumstances. However, as an ADS holder, we will not treat you as one of our shareholders and you will not be able to exercise the above rights of our shareholders. Under Korean law, the depositary will be the shareholder of our common shares underlying your ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have ADS holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and you, as an ADS holder, sets out ADS holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADSs. With respect to the preemptive rights, if we issue new common shares to third parties based on any of the exceptions as provided in our articles incorporation, a holder of our ADSs will be diluted. See Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information—Share capital.” If none of such exemptions is available under Korean law, we may be required to grant subscription rights to our shareholders, including the depositary, when issuing additional common shares. However, under U.S. law, we would not be able to make those rights available to investors in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate or if an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Under the deposit agreement, if we offer rights to subscribe for additional common shares, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make such rights available to you or dispose of such rights on your behalf and make the net proceeds available to you. If the depositary is unable to take such actions, it may allow the rights to lapse, in which case, you will receive no consideration for your rights. The depositary is generally not required to make rights available to ADS holders under any circumstance. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to enable you to exercise preemptive rights in respect of the common shares underlying your ADSs, and we cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act would be available. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to exercise preemptive rights and your interest will be diluted. With respect to the voting rights, you may not exercise voting rights of our shareholders. However, upon receipt of the necessary voting materials, you may instruct the depositary to vote the number of common shares represented by your ADSs and you may request the depositary to submit a request to convene a shareholders’ meeting. The depositary will notify you of shareholders’ meetings and arrange to deliver our voting materials to 20 Table of Contents you only when we deliver such materials to the depositary with sufficient time under the terms of the deposit agreement. If there is a delay, we cannot ensure that you will receive our voting materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote common shares represented by your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. Also, you may not request us to convene a shareholders’ meeting. However, the depositary may be able to request us to convene a shareholders’ meeting, provided the shares held in the name of the depositary represent at least 3% of our outstanding voting shares. See Item 10 of this annual report, “Additional Information—Share capital.” Upon receipt of the necessary voting materials, you may instruct the depositary to vote the number of common shares represented by your ADSs and you may request the depositary to submit a request to convene a shareholders’ meeting. The depositary will notify you of shareholders’ meetings and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you only when we deliver such materials to the depositary with sufficient time under the terms of the deposit agreement. If there is a delay, we cannot ensure that you will receive our voting materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your common shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. With respect to the dissent and appraisal rights, in some limited circumstances under Korean law, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business, our acquisition of a part of the business of any other company having a material effect on our business, or our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their common shares. However, if you hold our ADSs, you will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date for the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved. We may amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs without your consent and for any reason and, if you disagree with our amendments, your choices will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying securities. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs without your consent and for any reason. If an amendment adds or increases fees or charges, except for taxes and other governmental charges or expenses of the depositary, for registration fees, facsimile costs, delivery charges or similar items, or prejudices a substantial right of ADS holders, it will not become effective for outstanding ADRs until 30 days after the depositary notifies ADS holders of the amendment. At the time an amendment becomes effective, you are considered, by continuing to hold your ADSs, to have agreed to the amendment and to be bound by the ADRs and the deposit agreement as amended. If you do not agree with an amendment to the deposit agreement or the ADRs, your choices will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying securities. No assurance can be given that a sale of ADSs could be made at a price satisfactory to you in such circumstances. In addition, as of the date of this annual report, the common shares underlying the ADSs are not listed on any stock exchange in Korea. Your ability to sell the underlying common shares following withdrawal and the liquidity of the common shares may be limited. As a holder of our ADSs, you will have to indemnify us, the depositary and its custodian from any claims by any governmental authority with respect to taxes or other tax benefit obtained. As an ADS holder, you will have agreed to indemnify us, the depositary and its custodian for any and all claims made against any or all of us by any governmental authority with respect to taxes owed, or benefit received, by you as a result of your investment. If the depositary, its custodian or we suffer any loss as a result of actions taken by any holder of our ADSs for tax purposes, such holder will have to indemnify the depositary, its custodian or us, as the case may be, for such loss, which may exceed the tax benefit such holder received. 21 Table of Contents You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us, our directors and officers. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and most of our directors and officers reside in Korea. All or a significant portion of our assets, and the assets of such persons, are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have, however, irrevocably appointed an agent in New York to receive service of process in any proceeding in the State of New York relating to our ADSs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state of the United States. 