ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Container leasing demand is affected by numerous market factors as well as external political and economic events that are beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Demand for containers depends largely on the rate of world trade and economic growth. Demand for leased containers is also driven by our customers’ “lease vs. buy” decisions. Cyclical recessions can negatively affect lessors’ operating results because during economic downturns or periods of reduced trade, shipping lines tend to lease fewer containers, or lease containers only at reduced rates, and tend to rely more on their own fleets to satisfy a greater percentage of their requirements. In 2008, the rate of global economic growth slowed significantly causing global containerized trade growth to decrease. Economic forecasts indicate that the global economy will be exceptionally weak in 2009, and some forecasters are predicting that global containerized trade volumes may shrink in 2009 for the first time ever. Weak or negative trade growth in 2009 is likely to lead to a decrease in leasing demand and a decrease in our container utilization, downward pressure on our leasing rates, a decrease in leasing revenue and an increase in container operating costs (such as storage and positioning). To the extent that weak or negative trade growth leads to an excess worldwide supply of containers and reduced demand for purchases of used containers, it is also likely that our used container disposal prices will decrease. All of these factors can have a large negative impact on our growth rate and financial performance. In previous economic downturns, such as those that occurred in 2001 and 2002, we experienced many of the adverse effects described above. Many forecasters are predicting that the economic and global trade downturn will be significantly more severe in 2009 than it was in previous periods of weakness. Other general factors affecting demand for leased containers, container utilization and per diem rental rates include: • the available supply and prices of new and used containers; • changes in the operating efficiency of our customers, economic conditions and competitive pressures in the shipping industry; • the availability and terms of equipment financing for our customers; • fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency values; • import/export tariffs and restrictions; • customs procedures; • foreign exchange controls and • other governmental regulations and political or economic factors that are inherently unpredictable and may be beyond our control. Any of the aforementioned factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, in 2005 the inventory of new containers held at container factories by leasing companies and shipping lines increased substantially despite continued growth in the volume of world trade. We believe that this container inventory build-up was mainly caused by our customers achieving improved container operating efficiency in 2005 due to an unexpected reduction in port and rail congestion relative to the significant congestion problems that were experienced in 2004. The build-up of container inventories in Asia by our customers reduced our volume of leasing transactions in 2005 and caused our container utilization to decrease. Additionally, as a result of the build-up of inventories of new equipment, we reduced our container orders for the third and fourth quarters of 2005. 13 Table of Contents Equipment prices and lease rates may decrease. Lease rates depend on the type and length of the lease, the type, age and location of the equipment, competition, and other factors more fully discussed below. Container lease rates also move with the fluctuations in prices for new containers. Because steel is the major component used in the construction of new containers, the price for new containers, as well as prevailing container lease rates, are both highly correlated with the price of steel. A decrease in market leasing rates impacts both our new container investments and the existing containers in our fleet. Most of our existing containers are on operating leases, which means that the lease term is shorter than the expected life of the container, so the lease rate we receive for the container is subject to change at the expiration of the current lease. As a result, during periods of low lease rates, the average lease rate we receive for our containers is negatively impacted by both the addition of new containers at low lease rates as well as the turnover of existing containers from leases with higher lease rates to leases with lower lease rates. For example, new container prices and lease rates decreased in the late 1990’s, because of, among other factors, a drop in worldwide steel prices and a shift in container manufacturing from Taiwan and Korea to areas with lower labor costs in mainland China. During this time, our average lease rates, leasing revenue and profitability declined rapidly due to lease rate decreases on our existing containers. Container prices and market leasing rates have varied widely over the past five years. Container prices and market lease rates increased by over 40% from the middle of 2003 to the middle of 2005 primarily due to an increase in the price of steel in China, while during the second half of 2005 container prices and market leasing rates decreased significantly primarily due to reductions in the cost of steel in China. Container prices increased in the second quarter of 2006 and continued to increase through the second quarter of 2008. During the second half of 2008, steel and container prices and market lease rates decreased rapidly due to the global economic slowdown and the resulting decrease in demand for steel. Leasing rates can also be negatively impacted by an excess supply of containers due to a decrease in global trade growth, the entrance of new leasing companies, overproduction of new containers by factories and over-buying of new containers by shipping lines and leasing competitors. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the inventory of containers in Asia increased significantly primarily due to a decrease in the volume of containerized exports from China. An excess supply of leasing company and shipping line owned containers in Asia will depress market leasing rates as long as the over-stock situation continues. In addition, a number of new leasing companies have commenced operations during the last several years, and competition for new container leases has been very aggressive. In addition, our lease rates may not increase when container prices increase. In 2006, our average leasing rates decreased throughout the year despite relatively high container prices. The decrease in average leasing rates was mainly the result of lease renegotiations in which we offered several customers reduced lease rates in return for extensions of leases covering older containers. If recent economic and trade trends continue, our lease rates in 2009 will decrease due to low steel and new container prices, low or negative containerized trade growth, weak leasing demand, an excess supply of containers and aggressive competition by leasing companies to capture the limited number of leasing opportunities that are likely to be available. Lessee defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow by decreasing revenues and increasing storage, positioning, collection, recovery and lost equipment expenses. Our containers and chassis are leased to numerous customers. Rent and other charges, as well as indemnification for damage to or loss of our equipment, are payable under the leases and other arrangements by the lessees. Inherent in the nature of the leases and other arrangements for use of the equipment is the risk that once the lease is consummated, we may not receive, or may experience delay in realizing, all of the amounts to be paid in respect of the equipment. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases 14 Table of Contents and other arrangements could adversely affect our business and financial prospects and our ability to make payments on our debt. The cash flow from our equipment, principally lease rentals, management fees and proceeds from the sale of owned equipment, is affected significantly by our ability to collect payments under leases and other arrangements for the use of the equipment and our ability to replace cash flows from terminating leases by re-leasing or selling equipment on favorable terms. All of these factors are subject to external economic conditions and performance by lessees and service providers that are beyond our control. When lessees or sublessees of our containers and chassis default, we may fail to recover all of our equipment, and the containers and chassis we do recover may be returned in damaged condition or to locations where we will not be able to efficiently re-lease or sell them. As a result, we may have to repair and reposition these containers and chassis to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, and we may lose lease revenues and incur additional operating expenses in repossessing and storing the equipment. In 2008 we experienced an increase in lessee defaults, and it is likely that the number and size of customer defaults may increase in 2009 if economic conditions and global trade growth remain weak. In general, the profitability of our shipping line customers deteriorated significantly in 2008 due to decreasing freight rates caused by excess vessel capacity. Excess vessel capacity developed in 2008 and is likely to persist for several years due to the combination of large vessel deliveries planned for the next several years and a decrease in the rate of global containerized trade growth. In addition, the ongoing financial crisis makes lessee defaults more likely since shipping lines may face difficulty in arranging financing for their committed vessel purchases and any operating losses they may incur. Due to these factors, many industry observers believe that numerous small and mid-size shipping lines will cease operation in 2009 and believe that there is a reasonable likelihood that one or more major shipping lines could face serious financial problems. Our balance sheet includes an allowance for doubtful accounts as well as an equipment reserve related to the expected costs of recovering and remarketing containers currently in the possession of customers that have either defaulted or that we believe currently present a significant risk of loss. These reserves are based on our historical experience and are currently at low levels, mainly due to the relatively low level of defaults we have experienced in recent years. However, future defaults may be material and any such future defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business condition and financial prospects. Used container selling prices may decrease leading to lower gains or potentially large losses on the disposal of our equipment. Although our revenue primarily depends upon equipment leasing, our profitability is also affected by the residual values of our containers upon the expiration of their leases because, in the ordinary course of our business, we sell certain containers when such containers are returned to us. The volatility of the residual values of such equipment may be significant. These values, which can vary substantially, depend upon, among other factors, the location of the containers, worldwide steel prices and the cost of new containers, the supply of used containers for disposal, applicable maintenance standards, refurbishment needs, inflation rates, market conditions, materials and labor costs and equipment obsolescence. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Operating leases, which represent the predominant form of leases in our portfolio, are subject to greater residual value risk than finance leases. Containers are typically sold if it is in our best interest to do so after taking into consideration the book value, remaining useful life, repair condition, suitability for leasing or other uses and the prevailing local sales price for the containers. As these considerations vary, gains or losses on sale of equipment will also fluctuate and may be significant if we sell large quantities of containers. From 1999 through 2003 our average sale prices for used containers were very low due to low prices for new containers and an extreme over-supply of used containers in North America and Europe following the Asia crisis. We recorded large losses on the disposal of our equipment during these years. Used container selling prices have generally been at historically high levels from 2005-2008, resulting in substantial gains on 15 Table of Contents the disposal of our equipment, due to the increased cost of new containers, a high rate of containerized trade growth and the resulting limited amount of idle container inventories. Market conditions for used equipment in 2009 look substantially worse than they have in recent years. Steel and new container prices have decreased significantly since peaking in the second quarter of 2008, a sharp decrease in containerized trade volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008 has led to rapid growth in the number of idle containers worldwide, and it seems likely that used container prices will decrease in 2009 if market conditions do not improve. A significant decrease in used container selling prices in 2009 could result in net disposal losses and significantly reduce our profitability. We may incur future asset impairment charges. An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows generated from our long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including our container and chassis equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, including when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of reductions in demand for specific container and chassis types, a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset type, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management. If we are unable to finance capital expenditures, our business and growth plans will be adversely affected. We periodically make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and expand our container fleet. Since 2006, we have relied on our asset securitization warehouse facility and our Asset Backed Credit facility to finance the majority of our new container investments. However, financing has become scarcer and more expensive due to the ongoing financial crisis. While we are seeking to add commitments to our Asset Backed Credit facility or obtain other suitable financing, the disruptions in the capital markets have continued to become more severe. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining sufficient additional financing on acceptable terms, we will not be able to invest in our fleet to maintain our historical growth rate and our profitability will decrease. Even if we are successful in securing additional financial commitments, we expect that our effective interest rates will increase. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to finance our capital expenditures in future years, especially if the current disruptions in the capital markets persist, and, if we are unable to do so, our future growth rate and profitability will decrease. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis and have significant debt service obligations which could adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to fulfill our obligations and make it more difficult for us to fund our operations. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.25 billion under our asset backed securities program and our other credit facilities. In addition, we have capital lease obligations in the amount of $92.1 million. Our interest and debt expense for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately $65.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, our total net debt (total debt plus equipment purchases payable less unrestricted cash) to total revenue earning assets was 76%. Our substantial debt could have important consequences for investors, including the following: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result 16 Table of Contents in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness and which could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • make it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which have less debt. We may not generate sufficient revenues to service and repay our debt and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our markets. Despite our substantial leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our asset backed securities program and our other credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks described above would increase. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our outstanding indebtedness and fund future capital expenditures. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure investors that: • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and to fund working capital and future capital expenditures; • future borrowings will be available under our current or future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our debt; or • we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, the development of our business generally and any acquisitions. In addition, we may need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our customers may decide to lease fewer containers. Should shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenue, increased storage costs and increased positioning costs. We, like other suppliers of leased containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines to lease rather than buy their container equipment. Should shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenue, increased storage costs and increased positioning costs. A decrease in the portion of leased containers would also reduce our investment opportunities and significantly constrain our growth. Most of the factors affecting the decisions of our customers are outside our control. 17 Table of Contents While the percentage of leased containers has been fairly steady historically, this percentage has been decreasing over the last few years, with the percentage of leased containers decreasing from 46% in 2004 to 40% in 2008, according to Containerisation International. We believe that increased share of containers owned directly by the shipping lines is the result of the improved financial performance, increased operating scale and improved information systems of our customers, which make it easier for our customers to finance and deploy new container purchases efficiently. We expect many of these factors to continue. We are dependent upon continued demand from our large customer and any. default or significant reduction of orders from any of our large customers, and especially our single largest customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. Our largest customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our five largest customers represented approximately 48% of our leasing revenues for our 2008 fiscal year, with our single largest customer representing approximately 15% during such period. Furthermore, the shipping industry has been consolidating for a number of years, and further consolidation is expected and could increase the portion of our revenue that comes from our largest customers. The loss, default or significant reduction of orders from any of our large customers, and especially our single largest customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. We face extensive competition in the container leasing industry. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive container leasing and sales business. We compete with approximately ten other major leasing companies, many smaller lessors, manufacturers of container equipment, companies offering finance leases as distinct from operating leases, promoters of container ownership and leasing as a tax shelter investment, shipping lines, which sometimes lease their excess container stocks, and suppliers of alternative types of equipment for freight transport. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. Additionally, some of these competitors may have large, underutilized inventories of containers, which could lead to significant downward pressure on lease rates and margins. Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others, lease rates, lease terms (including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions), customer service, and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of equipment. New entrants into the leasing business have been attracted by the high rate of containerized trade growth in recent years, and new entrants have generally been less disciplined than we are in pricing and structuring leases. As a result, the entry of new market participants together with the already highly competitive nature of our industry, may reduce lease rates and undermine our ability to maintain our current level of container utilization or achieve our growth plans. Litigation to enforce our leases and recover our containers has inherent uncertainties that are increased by the location of our containers in jurisdictions that have less developed legal systems. While almost all of our lease agreements are governed by New York law and provide for the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located in the state of New York, our ability to enforce the lessees’ obligations under the leases and other arrangements for use of the containers often is subject to applicable laws in the jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. It is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. Our containers are manufactured in Asia, primarily in China, and a substantial portion of our containers are leased out of Asia, primarily China, and are used by our customers in service between Asia and North America, Europe, Central and South America, the Middle East, and Africa and in inter-Asia trade. Litigation and enforcement proceedings have inherent uncertainties in any jurisdiction and are expensive. These uncertainties are enhanced in countries that have less developed legal systems where the interpretation of laws and regulations is not consistent, may be influenced by factors other than legal merits and may be cumbersome, time-consuming and even more expensive. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and where the legal system is not as well developed. As a result, the remedies 18 Table of Contents available and the relative success and expedience of collection and enforcement proceedings with respect to the containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. As more of our business shifts to areas outside of the United States and Europe, such as China, it may become more difficult and expensive to enforce our rights and recover our containers. In 2008, the success of our recovery efforts for defaulted leases was hampered by undeveloped creditor protections and legal systems in a number of countries. In 2008, we experienced an increase in average recovery costs per unit and a decrease in the percentage of containers recovered in default situations primarily due to excessive charges applied to our containers by the depot or terminal facilities that had been storing the containers for the defaulted lessee. In these cases, the payments demanded by the depot or terminal operators often significantly exceeded the amount of storage costs that we would reasonably expect to pay for the release of the containers. However, our legal remedies were limited in many of the jurisdictions where the containers were being stored, and we were sometimes forced to accept the excessive storage charges to gain control of our containers. If the number and size of defaults increases in the future, and if a large percentage of the defaulted containers are being stored in countries with less developed legal systems, losses resulting from recovery payments and unrecovered containers could be large and our profitability significantly reduced. The age of our container fleet may become a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2008, the average age of the containers in our fleet was 7.1 years. We believe that the average age of most of our competitors’ container fleets is lower than the average age of our fleet, and customers generally have a preference for younger containers. Historically, we have been successful in marketing our older equipment by positioning older containers to areas where demand is very strong, offering incentives for customers to extend containers on lease, and providing greater drop-off location flexibility for containers approaching sale age. However, our marketing strategies for older containers may not continue to be successful, particularly if demand for containers continues to decrease. The age of our fleet may result in an increase in disposals of equipment and result in a reduction of lease revenue if we are unable to purchase and lease similar volumes of equipment. As of December 31, 2008, the average age of the containers in our fleet was 7.1 years. A large portion of our fleet was acquired in the mid-1990’s and is on leases which take the units to the end of their serviceable life in marine transport. Upon redelivery, this equipment is likely to be disposed. From 2004 through 2008, we sold on average approximately 7% of our equipment leasing fleet containers annually. Due to the significant portion of older containers in our fleet, we expect that our disposal rate will increase for several years beginning in 2009. If we are unable to purchase and lease the volumes of equipment necessary to replace the units sold, our revenue could decrease. Changes in market price, availability or transportation costs of containers in China could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of containers. China is currently the largest container producing nation in the world, and we currently purchase substantially all of our dry containers, special containers and refrigerated containers from manufacturers based in China. In addition, over the last several years, there has been a consolidation in the container manufacturing industry, resulting in two manufacturers controlling approximately 65% of the market. In the event that it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in China or to transport these containers at a low cost from the factory locations in China to the locations where they are needed by our customers, because of further consolidation among container suppliers, a dispute with one of our manufacturers, changes in trade patterns, increased tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments or for any other reason, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our equipment needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. 19 Table of Contents We may incur costs associated with relocation of leased equipment. When lessees return equipment to locations where supply exceeds demand, we routinely reposition containers to higher demand areas. Positioning expenses vary depending on geographic location, distance, freight rates and other factors, and may not be fully covered by drop-off charges collected from the last lessees of the equipment or pick-up charges paid by the new lessees. Positioning expenses can be significant if a large portion of our containers are returned to locations with weak demand. For example, prior to the Asia crisis of the late 1990’s containerized trade was relatively evenly balanced globally, and as a result, many of our lease contracts provided extensive drop-off flexibility in North America and Europe. However, global containerized trade patterns changed dramatically in the aftermath of the Asia crisis, and demand for leased containers in North America and Europe substantially decreased. We incurred significant positioning expenses from 2000-2003 to shift our inventory of containers from North America and Europe to Asia. Further changes in the pattern of global containerized trade could force us to incur significant positioning expenses in the future. We currently seek to limit the number of containers that can be returned and impose surcharges on containers returned to areas where demand for such containers is not expected to be strong. However, future market conditions may not enable us to continue such practices. In addition, we cannot assure you that we have accurately anticipated which port locations will be characterized by weak or strong demand in the future, and our current contracts will not provide much protection against positioning costs if ports that we expect to be strong demand ports turn out to be surplus container ports at the time leases expire. Our asset backed securities program and our other credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. Our asset backed securities program and other credit facilities impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions will limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase our stock; • issue capital stock of us and our subsidiaries; • make loans and investments; • create liens; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; • cause our subsidiaries to make dividends, distributions and other payments to TAL; and • otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our material container assets. It may become more expensive for us to store our off-hire containers. We are dependent on third party depot operators to repair and store our equipment in port areas throughout the world. In many locations the land occupied by these depots is increasingly being considered as prime real estate. Accordingly, local communities are considering increasing restrictions on the depot operations which would increase their costs and in some cases force depots to relocate to sites further from the 20 Table of Contents port areas. If these changes affect a large number of our depots it could significantly increase the cost of maintaining and storing our off-hire containers. In addition, due to the reduction in cargo volumes, depots in several major port locations are becoming full. Therefore, it may become more difficult and expensive to store our containers. Sustained Asian economic instability could reduce demand for leasing. A number of the shipping lines to which we lease containers are entities domiciled in Asian countries. In addition, many of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been economic disruptions, financial turmoil and political instability in this region. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect these customers and lead to a reduced demand for leasing of our containers or otherwise adversely affect us. Manufacturers of our equipment may be unwilling or unable to honor manufacturer warranties covering defects in our equipment. We obtain warranties from the manufacturers of our equipment. When defects in the containers occur, we work with the manufacturers to identify and rectify the problem. However, there is no assurance that manufacturers will be willing or able to honor warranty obligations. If defects are discovered in containers that are not covered by manufacturer warranties we could be required to expend significant amounts of money to repair the containers and/or the useful life of the containers could be shortened and the value of the containers reduced. We rely on our information technology systems to conduct our business. If these systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on two of our information technology systems: our equipment tracking and billing system and our customer interface system. For example, these systems allow customers to place pick-up and drop-off orders on the Internet, view current inventory and check contractual terms in effect with respect to any given container lease agreement. We correspondingly rely on such information systems to track transactions, such as container pick-ups and drop-offs, repairs, and to bill our customers for the use and damage to our equipment. We also use the information provided by these systems in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio and improve customer service. The failure of these systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and results of operation and cause our relationships with our customers to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses. Any such interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business. Most of our senior executives and other management-level employees have been with us for over ten years and have significant industry experience. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain our senior management, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success also depends on our ability to retain our experienced sales force and technical personnel as well as recruiting new skilled sales, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to retain customers and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. 21 Table of Contents The international nature of the container industry exposes us to numerous risks We are subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: • regional or local economic downturns; • changes in governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of countries in which we operate; • compliance with U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting doing business with certain nations or specially designated nationals; • import and export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • international incidents; • military outbreaks; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; • government protectionism; • compliance with export controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce; • compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • labor or other disruptions at key ports; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions. Any one or more of these factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. Certain liens may arise on our containers. Depot operators, repairmen and transporters may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have sums due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers, or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge such liens on the containers. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. There is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interest in containers. Although this has not occurred to date, the lack of a title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties who may improperly claim ownership of the containers. 22 Table of Contents As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and a determination that we violated this act may affect our business and operations adversely. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury Sanctions Regulations regarding doing business in or with certain nations and specially designated nationals (SDNs). As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). Any determination that we have violated such Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur increased costs associated with the implementation of new security regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the United States, seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Safety Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the United States. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972 (CSC), as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may incur increased compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet any new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our customers may require that we adopt such products in the conduct of our container leasing business. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks could negatively impact our operations and our profitability and may expose us to liability and reputational damage. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. Such attacks have contributed to economic instability in the United States and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence or war could similarly affect world trade and the industries in which we and our customers operate. In addition, terrorist attacks or hostilities may directly impact ports our containers come in and out of, depots, our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our sales and our supply chain. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade and lower demand for our containers. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or hostilities are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our operations. It is also possible that one of our containers could be involved in a terrorist attack. Although our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us against all damages arising out of the use of our containers, 23 Table of Contents and we carry insurance to potentially offset any costs in the event that our customer indemnifications prove to be insufficient, our insurance does not cover certain types of terrorist attacks, and we may not be fully protected from liability or the reputational damage that could arise from a terrorist attack which utilizes one of our containers. Environmental liability may adversely affect our business and financial situation. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from a container without regard to the owner’s fault. We have not yet experienced any such claims, although we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Liability insurance policies, including ours, usually exclude claims for environmental damage. Some of our lessees may have separate insurance coverage for environmental damage, but we cannot assure you that any such policies would cover or otherwise offset any liability we may have as the owner of a leased container. Our standard master tank container lease agreement insurance clause requires our tank container lessees to provide pollution liability insurance. Such insurance or indemnities may not fully protect us against damages arising from environmental damage. Many countries, including the United States, restrict, prohibit or otherwise regulate the use of chlorofluorocarbon compounds (“CFCs”) due to their ozone depleting and global warming effects. Over 99% of our refrigerated containers currently use R134A or 404A refrigerant. While R134A and 404A do not contain CFC’s, the European Union has instituted regulations to phase out the use of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems beginning in 2011 due to concern that the release of R134A into the atmosphere may contribute to global warming. While the European Union regulations do not currently restrict the use of 134A in refrigerated containers or trailers, it is possible that the phase out of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems will be extended to intermodal containers in the future. If future regulations prohibit the use or servicing of containers using R134A or 404A refrigerants, we could be forced to incur large retrofitting expenses. In addition, refrigerated containers that are not retrofitted may become difficult to lease and command lower prices in the market for used containers once we retire these containers from our fleet. An additional environmental concern affecting our operations relates to the construction materials used in our dry containers. The floors of dry containers are plywood usually made from tropical hardwoods. Due to concerns regarding de-forestation of tropical rain forests and climate change, many countries which have been the source of these hardwoods have implemented severe restrictions on the cutting and export of these woods. Accordingly, container manufacturers have switched a significant portion of production to more readily available alternatives such as birch, bamboo, and other farm grown wood species. Container users are also evaluating alternative designs that would limit the amount of plywood required and are also considering possible synthetic materials to replace the plywood. These new woods or other alternatives have not proven their durability over the 13-15 year life of a dry container and if they cannot perform as well as the hardwoods have historically the future repair and operating costs for these containers could be significantly higher. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could reduce our profitability. The majority of our revenues and costs are billed in U.S. dollars. Most of our non-U.S. dollar transactions are individually of small amounts and in various denominations and thus are not suitable for cost-effective hedging. In addition, almost all of our container purchases are paid for in U.S. dollars. Our operations and used container sales in locations outside of the U.S. have some exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, and trade growth and the direction of trade flows can be influenced by large changes in 24 Table of Contents relative currency values. Adverse or large exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Most of our equipment fleet is manufactured in China. Although the purchase price is in U.S. dollars, our manufacturers pay labor and other costs in the local currency, the Chinese Yuan. To the extent that our manufacturers’ costs increase due to changes in the valuation of the Chinese Yuan, the dollar price we pay for equipment could be affected. Increases in the cost of or the lack of availability of insurance could increase our risk exposure and reduce our profitability. Our lessees and depots are required to maintain all risks physical damage insurance, comprehensive general liability insurance and to indemnify us against loss. We also maintain our own contingent liability insurance and off-hire physical damage insurance. Nevertheless, lessees’ and depots’ insurance or indemnities and our insurance may not fully protect us. The cost of such insurance may increase or become prohibitively expensive for us and our customers and such insurance may not continue to be available. We also maintain director and officer liability insurance. Potential new accounting standards and new corporate governance regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain increased levels of coverage or it may not continue to be available. We could become subject to additional risks associated with financing of port equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We from time to time may enter into port equipment finance transactions in which we finance container cranes, reach stackers, and related equipment. The financing of port equipment such as container cranes involves additional risks such as the additional maintenance requirements for the equipment which if not followed could reduce the value of the equipment, the risk of personal injury inherent in operating this equipment, the limited remarketing opportunities for such equipment, the increased risk of technical obsolescence of such equipment and the high cost of transporting the equipment should it need to be repositioned. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning established by the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. The Resolute Fund, L.P., its affiliated funds and the other parties to a shareholders agreement among the investors who acquired our company in November 2004, management and certain of our other shareholders, as a group, control a majority of our outstanding common stock, and, as a result, we are considered a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a “controlled company” is exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. As a result, our board of directors does not consist of a majority of independent directors nor does our board of directors have compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees consisting entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, investors do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Our strategy to selectively pursue complementary acquisitions and joint ventures may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We may selectively pursue complementary acquisitions and joint ventures. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; 25 Table of Contents • difficulty with integration of personnel and financial and other systems; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition and joint venture strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. The price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common shares is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common shares may include: • variations in our financial results; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; • the public’s response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; • future sales of common stock by us and our directors, officers and significant stockholders; • announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; • our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts’ projections; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; • changes in our dividend policy; • fluctuations in the worldwide equity markets; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • our failure to timely address changing customer preferences; • broad market and industry factors; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. In addition, if the market for intermodal equipment leasing company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results. The trading price of our common shares might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common shares relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business or our industry. We have no influence or control over these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 26 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with required public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and the price of our common stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we do not maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We can also be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities for failure to comply with public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of internal controls over financial accounting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Although our management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are currently in place, no system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of material errors. As a result, the risk exists that our internal controls may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Adverse changes in business conditions could negatively impact our income tax provision or cash payments. Our net deferred tax liability balance includes a deferred tax asset for U.S. federal and various states resulting from net operating loss carryforwards. A reduction to our future earnings, which will lower taxable income, may require us to record a charge against earnings, in the form of a valuation allowance, if it is determined it is more-likely-than-not that some or all of the loss carryforwards will not be realized. In addition, under certain conditions, if our future investment in new container and chassis operating leases is significantly less than estimated, we may fail to benefit from future accelerated depreciation for income tax purposes. If this occurs we could pay significant income taxes sooner than we currently project. Equipment trading is dependent upon a steady supply of used equipment. We purchase used containers for resale from our shipping line customers and other sellers. If the supply of equipment becomes limited because these sellers develop other means for disposing of their equipment or develop their own sales network, we may not be able to purchase the inventory necessary to meet our goals, and our equipment trading revenues and our profitability could be negatively impacted. Abrupt changes in selling prices on equipment purchased for resale could negatively affect our equipment trading margins. We purchase and sell containers opportunistically as part of our equipment trading segment. We purchase equipment for resale on the premise that we will turnover this inventory in a relatively short time frame. If selling prices rapidly deteriorate and we are holding a large inventory that was purchased when prices for equipment were higher, then our gross margins could decline or become negative. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 27 Table of Contents 