D. RISK FACTORS If the events discussed in these Risk Factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially, adversely affected. In such a case, the market price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We may not pay dividends in the future. 7 Table of Contents The timing and amount of future dividends, if any, could be affected by various factors, including our earnings, financial condition and anticipated cash requirements, the loss of a vessel, the acquisition of one or more vessels, required capital expenditures, reserves established by our board of directors, increased or unanticipated expenses, including insurance premiums, a change in our dividend policy, increased borrowings, future issuances of securities or the other risks described in this section of the report, many of which may be beyond our control. In addition, our dividend is subject to change at any time at the discretion of our board of directors and our board of directors may elect to change our dividend by establishing a reserve for, among other things, the repayment of the secured credit facility or to help fund the acquisition of a vessel. Our board of directors may also decide to establish a reserve to repay indebtedness if, as the maturity of the secured credit facility approaches in 2017, we are no longer able to generate cash flows from our chartering activities in amounts sufficient to meet our debt obligations and it becomes clear that refinancing terms, or the terms of a vessel sale, are unacceptable or inadequate. If our board of directors were to establish such a reserve, the amount of cash available for dividend payments would decrease by the amount of the reserve. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by Marshall Islands law. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or if a company would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such dividends. Restrictive covenants in the secured credit facility may impose certain financial and other restrictions on DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries. We are a holding company and have no significant assets other than cash and the equity interests in our subsidiaries. DHT Maritime’s subsidiaries owned all of our vessels as of December 31, 2010, and as of such date payments under our charters were made to DHT Maritime’s subsidiaries. DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries entered into a secured credit facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland, or “RBS.” The secured credit facility with RBS imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries. These restrictions may limit DHT Maritime’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, change the management of vessels, permit liens on their assets, sell vessels, merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all of their assets to, another person, enter into certain types of charters and enter into a line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from RBS in order to engage in certain corporate actions. RBS’s interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain RBS’s permission when needed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under the secured credit facility. In the event that we are unable to service our debt obligations out of our chartering activities, we may need to refinance our indebtedness and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain new debt financing. In addition, our charters include provisions that will generally require us to use our best efforts to (i) negotiate security provisions with future lenders that would allow the charterers to continue their use of our vessels so long as they comply with their charters, regardless of any default by us under the loan agreement or the charters and (ii) arrange for future lenders to allow the charterers to purchase their loans and any related security at par if we default on our obligations under our charters or their loans. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to obtain acceptable financing in the future, increase the costs of any such financing to us or increase the time that it takes to refinance our indebtedness. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we may choose to issue securities or sell certain of our assets in order to satisfy our debt obligations. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations for any reason, our lenders could declare their debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on vessels in our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. We are highly dependent on the charterers and OSG. All of our vessels as of December 31, 2010 are chartered to wholly-owned subsidiaries of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., or “OSG,” (which we refer to collectively as the “charterers”) pursuant to either time charters or bareboat charters. The charterers’ payments to us under these charters are our sole source of revenue and we are highly dependent on the performance by the charterers of their obligations under the charters. OSG has guaranteed the payment of charter hire by the charterers under these charters. Any failure by the charterers or OSG, as the guarantor of charter hire payments under the charters, to perform their obligations would materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and cash available for the payment of dividends. Our stockholders do not have any direct recourse against the charterers or OSG. 8 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing our planned growth. We intend to grow our fleet by acquiring additional vessels in the future. Our future growth will primarily depend on: ● locating and acquiring suitable vessels; ● identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; ● adequately employing any acquired vessels; ● managing our expansion; and ● obtaining required financing on acceptable terms so that the acquisition is accretive to earnings and dividends per share. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans, that we will be able to employ acquired vessels under charters or ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those we have obtained from OSG and its subsidiaries or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. Certain agreements between us and OSG and its affiliates may be less favorable than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The memoranda of agreement, time charters and other contractual agreements we have with OSG and its affiliates with respect to our Initial Vessels (other than the new ship management agreements entered into on January 16, 2009) were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of the public offering of our shares, the purchase of our Initial Vessels and other related transactions. Because we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of OSG prior to the completion of our IPO, the negotiation of the memoranda of agreement, the time charters for our Initial Vessels, the ship management agreements and our other contractual arrangements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. Our charters begin to expire in 2012 unless extended at the option of the charterers, and we may not be able to re-charter our vessels profitably. At the time of our IPO, we entered into time charters with respect to our seven Initial Vessels whereby four charters would expire approximately six years after the date of delivery of the chartered vessel to us and three would expire approximately five years following such date, unless in each case extended at the option of the applicable charterer for additional one-, two- or three-year periods. The charterers have the sole discretion to exercise those options. We cannot predict whether the charterers will exercise any of their extension options under one or more of the time charters. The charterers do not owe any fiduciary or other duty to us or our stockholders in deciding whether to exercise the extension options, and the charterers’ decisions may be contrary to our interests or those of our stockholders. 9 Table of Contents On November 26, 2008, we entered into agreements with OSG whereby OSG exercised part of the extension options for the Initial Vessels upon expiry of the vessels’ initial charter periods. For two of the vessels, the charters were extended for 18 months following the expiry of the initial charter periods and for five of the vessels, the charters were extended for 12 months. We cannot predict at this time any of the factors that the charterers will consider in deciding whether to exercise any further extension options under the charters. It is likely, however, that the charterers would consider a variety of factors, which may include the age and specifications of the chartered vessel, whether the vessel is surplus or suitable to the charterers’ requirements and whether more competitive charter hire rates are available to the charterers in the open market at that time. If the charterers decide not to further extend our current time charters, we may not be able to re-charter our vessels on terms similar to the terms of our charters. We may also employ the vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate volatility than the long-term time charter market in which we operate. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to re-charter all of our vessels, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. If a time charter is extended further, the charter terms providing for profit sharing will remain in effect and the charterer, at the time of exercise, will have the option to select a basic charter rate that is equal to (i) 5% above the published one-, two- or three-year time charter rate (corresponding to the extension length) for the vessel’s class, as decided by a shipbrokers’ panel (subject to specified floors for certain of our vessels for the declared extension period), or (ii) the basic hire rate set forth in the charter. The shipbrokers’ panel will be The Association of Shipbrokers and Agents Tanker Broker Panel or another panel of brokers mutually acceptable to us and the charterer. If a charterer were to renew a charter, the renewal charter rate could be lower than the charter rate in existence prior to the renewal. Furthermore, if our charters were to be extended further, we would not be able to take full advantage of more favorable spot market rates, should they exist at the time of renewal. As a result, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders could be significantly reduced. With respect to our two Suezmaxes currently on bareboat charter, one charter expires in 2014 and the other charter expires in 2017. We may not be able to re-charter our Suezmaxes on terms similar to the terms of our current bareboat charters. We may also employ the vessels in the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate volatility than the long-term time charter market in which we operate. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to re-charter our vessels, the amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Our Vessels, of which seven currently operate in pools, may cease operating in those pools. Our three VLCCs currently participate in the Tankers International Pool, which consists of OSG and six other tanker companies, our two Suezmax vessels operate in the Suezmax International Pool which has three members and two of our four Aframaxes currently participate in the Aframax International Pool, which has eleven members. The Overseas Ania and the Overseas Rebecca left the Aframax International Pool in July 2008 and July 2009, respectively. In a pooling arrangement, the net revenues generated by all of the vessels in a pool are aggregated and distributed to pool members pursuant to a pre-arranged weighting system that recognizes each vessel’s earnings capacity based on its cargo capacity, speed and consumption, and actual on-hire performance. The charterers currently operate our VLCCs in the Tankers International Pool and two of our four Aframaxes in the Aframax International Pool. Under our charter arrangements for these vessels, we are entitled to share in the revenues that the charterers realize from operating the vessels in these pools in excess of the basic hire paid to us. Pooling arrangements are intended to maximize tanker utilization. We cannot assure you that OSG will continue to use pooling arrangements for those vessels or any of the vessels it manages and we cannot assure you that any additional vessels we acquire would operate in pools. Further, because OSG voluntarily participates in the pools, we cannot predict whether the pools in which our vessels participate will continue to exist in the future. In addition, the European Union has adopted rules which substantially reform the way it regulates traditional agreements for maritime services from an antitrust perspective. These changes may alter the way the pools are operated. If for any reason any of our vessels cease to participate in a pooling arrangement or the pooling arrangements are significantly restricted, their utilization rates could fall and the amount of additional hire paid could decrease, either of which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 10 Table of Contents Under the ship management agreements entered into with respect to the Initial Vessels effective January 16, 2009, our operating costs could materially increase, as compared to our historical operating costs associated with the management of such vessels. Under the Initial Vessels’ ship management agreements, effective January 16, 2009, Tanker Management Limited, or “Tanker Management,” a wholly-owned subsidiary of OSG, is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of the Initial Vessels and receives a technical management fee for its services. Under the Initial Vessels’ old ship management agreements, we paid a fixed daily fee for the cost of the vessels’ operations, including scheduled Drydockings, for each vessel. However, under the new ship management agreements, we pay the actual cost related to the technical management of the Initial Vessels, plus an additional management fee. The amounts that we have available, if any, to pay distributions to our stockholders could be significantly impacted by changes in the cost of operating our vessels. When a tanker changes ownership and/or technical management, it may lose customer approvals. Many major users of seaborne oil transportation services will require vetting of a vessel before it is approved to service their account. This represents a risk to our company as it may be difficult to efficiently employ the vessel until such vettings are in place. OSG’s other business activities may create conflicts of interest. Under our time charters with OSG, we are entitled to receive variable additional hire in amounts based on whether a vessel is part of a pooling arrangement, is subchartered by the charterer under a time charter or is used on the spot market. While the Overseas Ania and the Overseas Rebecca left the Aframax International Pool in July 2008 and July 2009, respectively, we expect OSG to continue to operate our three VLCCs in the Tankers International Pool, our two Suezmaxes in the Suezmax International pool and two of our four Aframaxes in the Aframax International Pool. When operated in a pool, chartering decisions are made by the pool manager and vessel earnings are based on a formula designed to allocate the pool’s earnings to vessel owners based on attributes of the vessels they contributed, rather than amounts actually earned by those vessels. For these reasons, it is unlikely that a conflict of interest will arise with respect to our Initial Vessels between us and OSG while such vessels are operated in a pool. However, if OSG withdraws from a pool or any further vessels cease operating in a pool for any other reasons, chartering decisions will effectively be made by OSG. Although our time charter arrangements expressly prohibit OSG from giving preferential treatment to any of the other vessels owned, managed by or under the control of OSG or its affiliates when sub-chartering any of our vessels, conflicts of interest may arise between us and OSG in the allocation of chartering opportunities that could reduce our additional hire, particularly if our vessels are sub-chartered by OSG in the time charter market outside of a pool. The Overseas Ania and the Overseas Rebecca, which left the Aframax International Pool in July 2008 and July 2009, respectively, are currently re-chartered to OSG Lightering, a subsidiary of OSG, until April 2012 at a daily rate of $19,250 and $17,500, respectively, which rate also serves as the basis for the fleet wide four quarter rolling profit sharing calculation. We are also entitled to receive additional hire with respect to one of our Suezmaxes, the Overseas Newcastle, which is operating in the Suezmax International Pool. DHT and its subsidiaries are subject to restrictions in certain financing agreements that impose constraints on their operating and financing flexibility. DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries entered into a secured credit facility with RBS under which they initially borrowed approximately $236 million under a term loan to finance a portion of the cash purchase price for the Initial Vessels. In addition, on December 4, 2007 DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries borrowed $92.7 million and, on January 28, 2008, a further $90.3 million to fund the acquisition of the Suezmaxes. Subsequent to the repayment of $75 million in October 2008, $50 million in June 2009 and $28 million in February 2010, there was $266 million outstanding under the secured credit facility as of December 31, 2010. DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries are required to apply a substantial portion of their cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on borrowings under the secured credit facility. The secured credit facility, which is secured by, among other things, mortgages over all of our vessels, assignments of earnings and insurances and pledges over certain bank accounts, requires that DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries comply with various operating covenants and maintain certain financial ratios, including that the charter-free market value of the vessels that secure the secured credit facility be no less than 120% of borrowings plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any outstanding swap agreements to satisfy collateral maintenance requirements and that the charter-free market value of the vessels that secure the secured credit facility be no less than 135% of borrowings plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any swap agreement that is entered into to pay dividends. We pay a floating rate of interest under the secured credit facility, although as of December 31, 2010 we have in place an interest rate swap in an amount of $65 million under which we pay a rate of 5.95% until January 18, 2013. On February 25, 2011, DHT Phoenix, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of DHT Holdings, entered into a secured loan agreement with DVB Bank SE under which DHT Phoenix, Inc. borrowed $27.5 million to finance part of the cost of the acquisition of the DHT Phoenix. DHT Phoenix, Inc.’s obligations under the secured loan agreement are guaranteed by DHT Holdings. The secured loan agreement, which is secured by, among other things, mortgages over the DHT Phoenix, assignments of earnings and insurances and pledges over certain bank accounts, requires that (i) DHT Phoenix, Inc. comply with various operating covenants and maintain certain financial ratios, including that the fair market value of the vessel that secures the secured loan agreement be no less than 130% of borrowings plus the actual or notional cost of terminating any outstanding swap agreements to satisfy collateral maintenance requirements and (ii) DHT Holdings shall at all times have, on a consolidated basis, adjusted tangible net worth of $100 million, unencumbered consolidated cash of at least $20 million and adjusted tangible net worth shall be at least 25% of value adjusted total assets. 11 Table of Contents We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company and have no significant assets other than cash and the share holdings in our subsidiaries. DHT Maritime’s subsidiaries own nine of our vessels and DHT Phoenix, Inc. owns one of our vessels, and payments under our charters are made to DHT Maritime’s subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to pay dividends depends on the performance of DHT Maritime’s subsidiaries and DHT Phoenix, Inc. and their ability to distribute funds to us. Our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to make these distributions are subject to restrictions contained in our subsidiaries’ financing agreements and could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends. Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for U.S. stockholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or "PFIC," for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In particular, U.S. holders who are individuals would not be eligible for the maximum 15% preferential tax rate on qualified dividends. In this regard, we believe it is more likely than not that the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities is properly treated as services income, rather than rental income. Assuming this is correct, our income from our time chartering activities would not constitute "passive income," and the assets we own and operate in connection with the production of that income would not constitute passive assets. Consequently, based on our operations, we believe that it is more likely than not that we are not currently a PFIC. There are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from time chartering activities constitutes rental income or income earned in connection with the performance of services. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has held that, for purposes of a different set of rules under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the "Code," income derived from certain time chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income. In recent guidance, however, the Internal Revenue Service, or the "IRS," states that it disagrees with the holding of the Fifth Circuit case, and specifies that time charters should be treated as services income. We have not sought, and we do not expect to seek, an IRS ruling on this matter. As a result, the IRS or a court could disagree with the position that we are not a PFIC. No assurance can be given that this result will not occur. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, no assurance can be given that the nature of our operations will not change in the future, or that we can avoid PFIC status in the future. 12 Table of Contents If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. stockholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make an election available under the Code, such stockholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income upon the receipt of excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, with interest payable on such tax liability as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder's holding period of our common stock. The 15% maximum tax rate for individuals would not be available for this calculation. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. stockholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Our operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which will reduce our cash flow. Under the Code, 50% of our gross income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source gross transportation income and is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless we qualify for exemption from such tax under Section 883 of the Code. Based on our review of the applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission documents, we believe that we qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption in the future. For example, we might not qualify for this exemption if stockholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common stock were to collectively own 50% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock on more than half the days during the taxable year. If we are not entitled to this exemption for a taxable year, we would be subject in that year to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on such shipping income. This could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be subject to taxation in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of our profits could be subject to UK corporate tax. We intend to operate in a manner so that we do not have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom and so that we are not resident in the United Kingdom, including by locating our principal place of business outside the United Kingdom, requiring our executive officers to be outside of the United Kingdom when making any material decision regarding our business or affairs and by holding all of our board of directors meetings outside of the United Kingdom. However, because certain of our directors reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that we are subject to UK corporate tax. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, we could incur substantial legal costs defending our position, and, if we were unsuccessful in our defense, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY Vessel values and charter rates are volatile. Significant decreases in values or rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The tanker industry historically has been highly cyclical. If the tanker industry is depressed in the future when our charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the conditions in the tanker market at that time. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. Vessel values rose in the beginning of 2010, but began to decline again as the spot freight market decreased over the summer due primarily to the re-entry into the trading fleet of several tankers that had been in floating storage. The highly cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates from time to time, which may adversely affect our earnings. Factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our vessels and result in significant fluctuations in the amount of additional hire we earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: ● demand for oil and oil products, which affect the need for tanker capacity; ● global and regional economic and political conditions which, among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; ● changes in the production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, which impact the need for tanker capacity; ● developments in international trade; ● changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; ● environmental concerns and regulations; ● weather; and ● competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: ● the number of Newbuilding deliveries; ● the scrapping rate of older vessels; ● the number of vessels that are out of service; and ● environmental and maritime regulations. 14 Table of Contents An oversupply of new vessels may adversely affect charter rates and vessel values. If the capacity of new ships delivered exceeds the capacity of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, the Newbuilding order book equaled approximately 26% of the existing world tanker fleet as of February 2011 and we cannot assure you that the order book will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline and the value of our vessels could be adversely affected. The amount of additional hire that we receive under our charter arrangements, if any, will generally depend on prevailing spot market rates, which are volatile. Our Initial Vessels are operated under time charters with the charterers, and additional hire is paid to us pursuant to a charter framework agreement among us and OSG International, Inc., or “OIN,” and certain of our and its subsidiaries. Under the time charters, we receive a fixed minimum daily basic charter rate and under the charter framework agreement we may also receive additional hire. Additional hire, if any, is paid quarterly in arrears. The amount of additional hire is subject to variation depending on the charter hire received by the charterers through their pooling arrangements or, if a vessel is not operated in a pool, charter rates in the time charter or spot charter markets, each of which is highly dependent on general tanker market conditions. One of our Suezmaxes, the Overseas Newcastle, which was delivered to us on December 4, 2007, is operated under a bareboat charter pursuant to which we receive a fixed minimum daily basic charter rate and may also receive additional hire. Additional hire, if any, is paid quarterly in arrears. The amount of additional hire is subject to variation depending on the charter hire received by the charterer in the time charter or spot charter markets, each of which is highly dependent on general tanker market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will receive additional hire for any quarter. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks, the outbreak of war or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters. We conduct our operations internationally, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout the period from 2008 to 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. For example, in November 2008, the M/V Sirius Star, a tanker not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million at the time of its capture. If these pirate attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was categorized in May 2008, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly and such coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs in connection with employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, including the payment of any ransom we may be forced to make, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any of these events may result in a loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. 15 Table of Contents Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could negatively affect the trading price of our shares of common stock. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels have called and may again call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest or governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. The value of our vessels may be depressed at a time when and in the event that we sell a vessel. Tanker values have generally experienced high volatility. Investors can expect the fair market value of our tankers to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels and other modes of transportation. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of our vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If for any reason we sell a tanker at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the tanker’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus, which could reduce our ability to pay dividends. Vessel values may be depressed at a time when our subsidiaries are required to make a repayment under their secured credit facilities, or when the secured credit facilities mature, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to refinance the secured credit facility. In the event of the sale or loss of a vessel, the secured credit facility requires DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries to prepay the facility in an amount proportionate to the market value of the sold or lost vessel compared with the total market value of all of our vessels before such sale or loss. If vessel values are depressed at such a time, our liquidity could be adversely affected as the amount that DHT Maritime and its subsidiaries are required to repay could be greater than the proceeds we receive from a sale. In addition, declining tanker values could adversely affect our ability to refinance the secured credit facility at its maturity in 2017, as the amount that a new lender would be willing to lend on the same terms may be less than the amount we owe under the expiring secured credit facility. In the event of the sale or loss of the DHT Phoenix, the secured loan agreement requires DHT Phoenix, Inc. to prepay the facility. If vessel values are depressed at such a time, our liquidity could be adversely affected as the amount that DHT Phoenix, Inc. is required to repay could be greater than the proceeds we receive from a sale. In addition, declining tanker values could adversely affect our ability to refinance the secured loan agreement at its maturity in 2016, as the amount that a new lender would be willing to lend on the same terms may be less than the amount we owe under the expiring secured loan agreement. 16 Table of Contents We operate in the highly competitive international tanker market which could affect our financial position if the charterers do not renew our charters. The operation of tankers and transportation of crude oil are extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies, as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially larger fleets and substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. During the term of our charters for our vessels as of December 31, 2010, our exposure to this competition is limited because of the predominantly fixed rate nature of our charters. The DHT Phoenix, which was delivered during the first quarter of 2011, will not be on charter but will operate in the Tankers International pool. In the event that the charterers do not further renew the charters when they expire (beginning in 2012) or terminate the charters for any reason, we will have to compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies, for charters. Due in part to the fragmented tanker market, competitors with greater resources may be able to offer better prices than us, which could result in our achieving lower revenues from our vessels. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or other liabilities under environmental laws. OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. OPA provides for the scheduled phase-out of all non double-hull tankers that carry oil in bulk in U.S. waters. IMO and the European Union also have adopted separate phase-out schedules applicable to single-hull tankers operating in international and EU waters. These regulations will reduce the demand for single-hull tankers, force the remaining single-hull vessels into less desirable trading routes, increase the number of ships trading in routes open to single-hull vessels and could increase demands for further restrictions in the remaining jurisdictions that permit the operation of these vessels. As a result, single-hull vessels are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. Although all of our tankers are double-hulled, we cannot assure you that these regulatory programs will not apply to vessels acquired by us in the future. 17 Table of Contents In addition, in complying with OPA, IMO regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, ship-owners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. For example, various jurisdictions are considering imposing more stringent requirements on air emissions, including greenhouse gases, and on the management of ballast waters to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species that are considered to be invasive. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non-double-hull phase-out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to us. Future accidents can be expected in the industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks, which could impair the ability of the charterers to make payments to us. Our tankers and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our vessels. Any of these events could impair the ability of the charterers to make payments to us under our charters. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to make us whole in the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, or fail to cover all of the inherent operational risks associated with the tanker industry. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. DHT Management AS, a subsidiary of DHT Holdings, will be responsible for arranging insurance against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against, and we are responsible for the premium payments on such insurance. With respect to our two Suezmaxes, the Overseas Newcastle and the Overseas London, which are on bareboat charters, the charterer is responsible for arranging and paying insurance. This insurance includes marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks and crew insurance, and war risk insurance. DHT Management AS is also responsible for arranging loss of hire insurance in respect of each of our vessels except the vessels on bareboat charters, and we are responsible for the premium payments on such insurance. This insurance generally provides coverage against business interruption for periods of more than 30 days per incident (up to a maximum of 120 days) per incident per year, following any loss under our hull and machinery policy. We will not be reimbursed under the loss of hire insurance policies, on a per incident basis, for the first 30 days of off hire. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. If insurance premiums increase, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the loss of a vessel would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest our tankers, which could interrupt the charterers’ or our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien-holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt the charterers’ or our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. 18 Table of Contents Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock may be unpredictable and volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, mergers and strategic alliances in the tanker industry, market conditions in the tanker industry, changes in government regulation, shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, announcements concerning us or our competitors and the general state of the securities market. The tanker industry has been unpredictable and volatile. The market for common stock in this industry may be equally volatile. Therefore, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell any of our common stock you may have purchased at a price greater than or equal to the original purchase price. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of our shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. This could depress the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate, or at all. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the “BCA.” The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA, and the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. Therefore, the rights of stockholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we can not predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions that any particular U.S. court would reach or has reached. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Our bylaws restrict stockholders from bringing certain legal action against our officers and directors. Our bylaws contain a broad waiver by our stockholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of stockholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. 19 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover provisions in our bylaws that may discourage a change of control. Our bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: ● a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms, elected without cumulative voting; ● directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common stock issued and outstanding; ● advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; ● a limited ability for stockholders to call special stockholder meetings; and ● our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preferred stock and to issue the preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 