Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. Risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect our business and operation. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with substantial volatility in oil prices and other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued in 2008. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) premiums than the recently increased level because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted EESA authorizes the Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program or “TARP.” The purpose of the TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion toward the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. We issued to the Treasury 50,000 Series A Preferred Shares and a Warrant for 288,129 shares of common stock pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program in January 2009. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and monetary policy. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, our one-year ratio of interest-rate-sensitive assets to interest-rate-sensitive liabilities was 107.4% and our cumulative gap position was 4.1% of total earning assets, resulting in a minimum impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating rate loans made up 30.0% of our $1.96 billion loan portfolio. A loan is considered fixed rate if the loan is currently at its adjustable floor or ceiling. As a result of the decline in interest rates during 2008, the Company has approximately $226.9 million of loans that cannot be additionally priced down but could price up if rates were to return to higher levels. In addition, 64.7% of our loans receivable and 88.9% of our time deposits were scheduled to reprice within 12 months and our other rate sensitive asset and rate sensitive liabilities composition is subject to change. Significant composition changes in our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position and interest rate changes would have more of an impact to our earnings. Our results of operations are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by the Federal Reserve Board involving monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. We are a registered bank holding company primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiaries are also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the Arkansas State Bank Department. Complying with banking industry regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions. Recently, banks generally have faced increased regulatory sanctions and scrutiny, particularly under the USA PATRIOT Act and statutes that promote customer privacy or seek to prevent money laundering. As regulation of the banking industry continues to evolve, we expect the costs of compliance to continue to increase and, thus, to affect our ability to operate profitably. Risks Related to Our Business Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our secured loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we analyze our loan portfolio based on our historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. As of December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $40.4 million, or 2.06% of our total loans receivable. 20 Table of Contents If our assumptions are incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and increased loan loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a negative effect on our operating results. Because we have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, a further downturn in the real estate market could result in losses and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 82.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that we would be required to increase our provision for loan losses. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Since December 31, 2007, the weakening real estate market, particularly in Florida, has and may continue to increase our level of non-performing loans. While we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate at December 31, 2008, as additional facts become known about relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability and our assumptions, it may result in us making additions to the provision for loan loss during 2009. Any failure by management to closely monitor the status of the market and make the necessary changes could have a negative effect on our operating results. Because we have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, a significant loss on any of those loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, each of our bank subsidiaries is generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 20% of its respective capital. Historically, when our bank subsidiaries have lending relationships that exceed their individual loan to one borrower limitation, the overline, or amount in excess of the subsidiary bank’s legal lending limit, is participated to our other bank subsidiaries. As a result, on a consolidated basis we may have aggregate exposure to individual or related borrowers in excess of each individual bank subsidiary’s legal lending limit. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate legal lending limit of our bank subsidiaries for secured loans was approximately $55.2 million. Currently, our board of directors has established an in-house consolidated lending limit of $20.0 million to any one borrowing relationship without obtaining the approval of any two of our Chairman, our President and our director Richard H. Ashley. As of December 31, 2008, we had 35 borrowing relationships where we had a commitment to loan in excess of $10.0 million, with the aggregate amount of those commitments totaling approximately $542.2 million. The largest of those commitments to one borrowing relationship was $27.4 million, which is 9.7% of our consolidated shareholders’ equity. Given the size of these loan relationships relative to our capital levels and earnings, a significant loss on any one of these loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. 21 Table of Contents The unexpected loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our success depends significantly on our executive officers, especially John W. Allison, Ron W. Strother, Randy E. Mayor, and on the presidents of our bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiaries, in particular, rely heavily on their management team’s relationships in their local communities to generate business. Because we do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with our employees, our executive officers and bank presidents are free to resign at any time and accept an employment offer from another company, including a competitor. The loss of services from a member of our current management team may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through the acquisition of banks, de novo branching, and the organization of new banks represents an important component of our business strategy. Although we have no present plans to acquire any financial institution or financial services provider, any future acquisitions we might make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • credit risk associated with the acquired bank’s loans and investments; • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we plan to continue de novo branching, and we may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not, however, have any current plans to organize a new bank. De novo branching and any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions, de novo branching and the organization of new banks. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. 22 Table of Contents There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with our acquisitions of bank subsidiaries which would have a negative impact upon our future income. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions of bank subsidiaries. We acquired three bank subsidiaries in 2005, one in 2008, and will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, with a primary focus on Arkansas and Florida. In most cases, our acquisition of a bank includes the acquisition of all of the target bank’s assets and liabilities, including its loan portfolio. There may be instances when we, under our normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below our standards, or the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause us to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan losses, which would have a negative impact upon our future income. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive. We experience strong competition, not only from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, but also from mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other financial institutions operating in or near our market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. Many of our competitors are much larger national and regional financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage against them as a result of our smaller size and resources and our lack of geographic diversification. We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small and mid-sized businesses that we target and to use a relationship-based approach similar to ours. In addition, our competitors may seek to gain market share by pricing below the current market rates for loans and paying higher rates for deposits. Competitive pressures can adversely affect our profitability. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. As a service to our clients, our bank subsidiaries currently offer Internet banking. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients’ transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our recent results do not indicate our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to grow and, as a result, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us and our bank subsidiaries to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe that the $50 million in capital we obtained through the sale of the Series A Preferred Shares to the Treasury in January 2009 as well as our pre-existing capital, which already exceeded the federal and state capital requirements, will be sufficient to support our current operations and anticipated expansion, factors such as faster than anticipated growth, reduced earning levels, operating losses, changes in economic conditions, revisions in regulatory requirements, or additional acquisition opportunities may lead us to seek additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. If we need additional capital but cannot raise it on terms acceptable to us, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant control over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own approximately 31.9% of our common stock. Consequently, if they vote their shares in concert, they can significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our officers and directors may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting our company with which you disagree. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. Our internal controls may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 24 Table of Contents A natural disaster or act of terrorism, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We are at risk of natural disaster or acts of terrorism, even if our market areas are not primarily affected. Our Florida market, in particular, is subject to risks from hurricanes, which may damage or dislocate our facilities, damage or destroy collateral, adversely affect the livelihood of borrowers or otherwise cause significant economic dislocation in areas we serve. Risk Related to Owning Our Stock Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock. Unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, with respect to the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock, dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by our board of directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant and, under Arkansas law, may be paid only out of lawfully available funds. We are an entity separate and distinct from our bank subsidiaries and derive substantially all of our revenue in the form of dividends from those subsidiaries. Accordingly, we are and will be dependent upon dividends from our bank subsidiaries to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, to satisfy our other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock. The ability of our bank subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to their ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event they are unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or our common stock. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We are also subject to certain contractual restrictions that could prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends or making liquidation payments on our common stock or the Series A Preferred Shares. The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding subordinated debentures or if certain defaults relating to those debentures occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock. We have $47.6 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock and the Series A Preferred Shares. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Series A Preferred Shares or our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our capital stock (including the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock). If we elect to defer or if we default with respect to our obligations to make payments on these subordinated debentures, this would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock. Moreover, without notice to or consent from the holders of the Series A Preferred Shares or our common stock, we may issue additional series of subordinated debt securities in the future with terms similar to those of our existing subordinated debt securities or enter into other financing agreements that limit our ability to purchase or to pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock. 25 Table of Contents The prices of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of the Series A Preferred Shares and our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; and • regulatory developments. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Shares. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Shares could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and corporate policies, Arkansas corporate law and federal regulations could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock and the Series A Preferred Shares. These provisions include advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings and a provision allowing directors to fill a vacancy in our board of directors. Our Articles of Incorporation also authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock, and although our board of directors has not had and does not presently have any intention of issuing any preferred stock for anti-takeover purposes, preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, because we are a bank holding company, purchasers of 10% or more of our common stock may be required to obtain approvals under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, or the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (and in certain cases such approvals may be required at a lesser percentage of ownership). Specifically, under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve, any other bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire or retain 5% or more of our common stock and any person other than a bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve to acquire or retain 10% or more of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $2.5 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $4.5 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of January 16, 2012 and the date on which all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire any shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Shares) or any trust preferred securities issued by us. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Shares. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Although we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2003 and expect to continue this practice, we cannot assure you of our ability to continue. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • We may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our bank subsidiaries, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of these banks to pay dividends. • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. • Before dividends may be paid on our common stock in any year, payments must be made on our subordinated debentures and the Series A Preferred Shares as described in these Risk Factors and elsewhere in this registration statement. • Our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event our bank subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. 27 Table of Contents The Series A Preferred Shares impact net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Shares is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 1.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. The price of our common stock can be volatile. The price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors. Factors include actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, recommendations by securities analysts, operating and stock price performance of other companies, news reports, results of litigation and other factors, including those described in this “Risk Factors” section. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes and credit loss trends could also cause our common stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Our common stock also has a low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks. This can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed for trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any other company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved Commission staff comments. 