ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Container leasing demand can be negatively affected by numerous market factors as well as external political and economic events that are beyond our control. Decreasing leasing demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for containers depends largely on the rate of world trade and economic growth. Demand for leased containers is also driven by our customers' "lease vs. buy" decisions. Cyclical recessions can negatively affect lessors' operating results because during economic downturns or periods of reduced trade, shipping lines tend to lease fewer containers, or lease containers only at reduced rates, and tend to rely more on their own fleets to satisfy a greater percentage of their requirements. As a result, during periods of weak global economic activity, we typically experience decreasing leasing demand, decreasing equipment utilization, lower average rental rates, decreased leasing revenue, decreased used container resale prices and significantly decreased profitability. These effects can be severe. For example, our profitability decreased significantly from the third quarter of 2008 to the third quarter of 2009 due to the effects of the global financial crisis, and our profitability would have decreased further if trade activity did not start to recover at the end of 2009. TAL's performance and profitability will likely be similarly impacted if current economic uncertainties or other events lead to slower global economic growth and reduced containerized trade growth in the future. Other general factors affecting demand for leased containers, container utilization and per diem rental rates include: •the available supply and prices of new and used containers; •changes in the operating efficiency of our customers, economic conditions and competitive pressures in the shipping industry; •the availability and terms of equipment financing for our customers; •fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency values; •import/export tariffs and restrictions; •customs procedures; •foreign exchange controls and •other governmental regulations and political or economic factors that are inherently unpredictable and may be beyond our control. Any of the aforementioned factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Lease rates may decrease due to weak leasing demand, a decrease in new container prices or other factors, resulting in reduced revenues, lower margins, and reduced profitability and cash flows. Market leasing rates are typically a function of, among other things, new equipment prices (which are heavily influenced by steel prices), interest rates, the type and length of the lease, the equipment supply and demand balance at a particular time and location, and other factors more fully described below. A decrease in leasing rates can have a materially adverse affect on our leasing revenues, profitability and cash flow. A decrease in market leasing rates negatively impacts the leasing rates on both our new container investments and the existing containers in our fleet. Most of our existing containers are on operating leases, which means that the lease term is shorter than the expected life of the container, so the lease rate we receive for the container is subject to change at the expiration of the current lease. As a result, 14 Table of Contents during periods of low market lease rates, the average lease rate we receive for our containers is negatively impacted by both the addition of new containers at low lease rates as well as the turnover of existing containers from leases with higher lease rates to leases with lower lease rates. This occurred during the second half of 2008 and continued in 2009 due to extremely weak leasing demand, and we also faced an extended period of decreasing average leasing rates from 1998-2003 due to a decrease in steel and new container prices. In both the 2009 and 1998-2003 periods, the reductions in our leasing rates contributed to significant decreases in our profitability. During 2010 to 2012, the size of our owned fleet increased significantly due to large purchases of new equipment and investments in sale-leaseback transactions. Many of those containers, particularly the new containers purchased in 2010 and 2011, were purchased at relatively high prices and leased out at lease rates well above our portfolio average. The high level of procurement in those years has created a concentration of leases with historically high leasing rates that will generally expire from 2015 through 2020. If container prices and market leasing rates revert back toward historical average levels or decline below those levels at the time those leases expire, we could be forced to re-lease those containers at significantly reduced lease rates and our average lease rates, operating margins, profitability and financial position would be adversely affected, even if trade growth and demand for leased containers remains strong. Lessee defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow by decreasing revenues and increasing storage, positioning, collection, recovery and lost equipment expenses. Our containers and chassis are leased to numerous customers. Lease rentals and other charges, as well as indemnification for damage to or loss of our equipment, are payable under the leases and other arrangements by the lessees. Inherent in the nature of the leases and other arrangements for use of the equipment is the risk that once the lease is consummated, we may not receive, or may experience delay in realizing, all of the amounts to be paid in respect of the equipment. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases and other arrangements could adversely affect our business and financial prospects and our ability to make payments on our debt. The cash flow from our equipment, principally lease rentals, management fees and proceeds from the sale of owned equipment, is affected significantly by our ability to collect payments under leases and other arrangements for the use of the equipment and our ability to replace cash flows from terminating leases by re-leasing or selling equipment on favorable terms. All of these factors are subject to external economic conditions and performance by lessees and service providers that are beyond our control. In addition, when lessees or sub-lessees of our containers and chassis default, we may fail to recover all of our equipment, and the containers and chassis we do recover may be returned in damaged condition or to locations where we will not be able to efficiently re-lease or sell them. As a result, we may have to repair and reposition these containers and chassis to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, and we may lose lease revenues and incur additional operating expenses in repossessing, repositioning and storing the equipment. We believe that the risk of large lessee defaults remains elevated. For the last several years the container shipping industry has suffered from excess vessel capacity as a result of aggressive vessel orders generally placed prior to the financial crisis. Because of this excess vessel capacity, the freight rates our customers receive for moving cargo have been pressured, and many of our customers have generated large financial losses over the last several years, particularly in 2009 and 2011. Several of our customers, including our largest customer, underwent significant financial restructurings as a result of the large losses they incurred. The financial performance of our customers improved in 2012 compared to 2011, but new vessel deliveries will likely cause vessel capacity to increase faster than trade volumes 15 Table of Contents in 2013. As a result, we expect excess vessel capacity to persist for several more years and expect the financial performance of our customers to remain under pressure. Our balance sheet includes an allowance for doubtful accounts as well as an equipment reserve related to the expected costs of recovering and remarketing containers currently in the possession of customers that have either defaulted or that we believe currently present a significant risk of loss. However, we do not maintain a general equipment reserve for equipment on-hire under operating leases to performing customers. As a result, any major customer default would have a significant impact on our profitability at the time the customer defaulted. Such a default could also have a material adverse effect on our business condition and financial prospects. Our customer base is highly concentrated. A default from any large customer, and especially our largest customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. In addition, a significant reduction in leasing business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on demand for our containers and our financial performance. Our largest customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our five largest customers represented approximately 48% of our leasing revenues in 2012, with our single largest customer representing 16% of our leasing revenues during this period. Furthermore, the shipping industry has been consolidating for a number of years, and further consolidation is expected and could increase the portion of our revenues that come from our largest customers. Several of our major customers, including our largest customer, underwent significant financial restructurings as a result of the large financial losses they incurred in recent years. The financial performance of our customers has generally been volatile with periods of solid financial performance followed by periods of steep financial losses. While our customers experienced improved financial performance in 2012 from 2011, they continue to face significant economic headwinds and their financial performance is generally expected to be constrained in 2013. Given the high concentration of our customer base, a default by any of our largest customers would result in a major reduction in our leasing revenue, large repossession expenses, potentially large lost equipment charges and a material adverse impact on our performance and financial condition. In addition, the loss or significant reduction in orders from any of our major customers could materially reduce the demand for our containers and result in lower leasing revenue, higher operating expenses and diminished growth prospects. The introduction of very large container ships (10,000 TEU+) on the major East/West trade lanes may lead to further industry consolidation and an even greater reliance by us on our largest customers. Several of the largest shipping lines have invested heavily in these very large ships and reportedly have achieved meaningful unit cost advantages and increased market shares on the major trade lanes. In response, some smaller shipping lines have started to exit the major trade lanes, while others are seeking to form closer operating partnerships. Used container selling prices may decrease leading to lower gains or potentially large losses on the disposal of our equipment. Although our revenues primarily depend upon equipment leasing, our profitability is also affected by the gains or losses we realize on the sale of used containers because, in the ordinary course of our business, we sell certain containers when they are returned to us. The volatility of the selling prices and gains or losses from the disposal of such equipment may be significant. Used container selling prices, which can vary substantially, depend upon, among other factors, the cost of new containers, the global supply and demand balance for containers, the location of the containers, the supply and demand balance for used containers at a particular location, the repair condition of the container, refurbishment needs, materials and labor costs and equipment obsolescence. Most of these factors are outside of our 16 Table of Contents control. Operating leases, which represent the predominant form of leases in our portfolio, are subject to greater selling price risk than finance leases. Containers are typically sold if it is in our best interest to do so after taking into consideration local and global leasing and sale market conditions and the age, location, repair condition and net book value of the container. As these considerations vary, gains or losses on sale of equipment will also fluctuate and may be significant if we sell large quantities of containers. Used container selling prices and the gains or losses that we have recognized from selling used containers have varied widely over the last fifteen years. From 1999 through 2003, our average sale prices for used containers were historically low due to low prices for new containers and an extreme over-supply of used containers in North America and Europe following the Asia crisis. We recorded large losses on the disposal of our equipment during those years. Selling prices for used containers and our disposal gains have been exceptionally high for the last several years due to a tight global supply and demand balance for containers and generally high new container prices. In 2012, used container prices and our disposal gains began to moderate from peak 2011 levels, though they remain very high compared to historical levels. We generally expect used container sale prices and our disposal gains to continue to moderate toward historically normal levels, which would have a negative impact on our financial performance and cash flow. These effects could be significant if used container sale prices decreased rapidly. Equipment trading is dependent upon a steady supply of used equipment. We purchase used containers for resale from our shipping line customers and other sellers. If the supply of equipment becomes limited because these sellers develop other means for disposing of their equipment or develop their own sales network, we may not be able to purchase the inventory necessary to meet our goals, and our equipment trading revenues and our profitability could be negatively impacted. Abrupt changes in selling prices on equipment purchased for resale could negatively affect our equipment trading margins. We purchase and sell containers opportunistically as part of our equipment trading segment. We purchase equipment for resale on the premise that we will turnover this inventory in a relatively short time frame. If selling prices rapidly deteriorate and we are holding a large inventory that was purchased when prices for equipment were higher, then our gross margins could decline or become negative. If we are unable to finance capital expenditures, our business and growth plans will be adversely affected. We make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and expand the size of our container fleet. We have relied heavily on debt financing to help us fund our new container investments. During the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, bank financing became much more difficult to obtain and the asset securitization market was not available to us. If similar or other disruptions in the capital markets and in the asset securitization market in particular occur, it would be more difficult and more expensive for us to fund additional container investments. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining sufficient additional financing on acceptable terms, we will not be able to invest in our fleet and our profitability will decrease. 17 Table of Contents We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis and have significant debt service requirements. This increases the risk that adverse changes in our operating performance, our industry or the financial markets could severely diminish our financial performance and future business and growth prospects, and increases the chance that we might face insolvency due to a default on our debt obligations. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding on a consolidated basis. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding indebtedness of $2.6 billion under our asset backed securities, capital lease obligations and other debt facilities. Our interest and debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $114.6 million. As of December 31, 2012, our total net debt (total debt plus equipment purchases payable less cash) to total revenue earning assets was 76%. Our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences for investors, including the following: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt facilities. Any failure to comply with such obligations, including a failure to make timely interest or principal payments, or a breach of financial or other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future prospects and solvency; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; •make it difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors having less debt. Despite our substantial leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our asset backed securities and other credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and, under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the risks described above would increase. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our outstanding indebtedness. This may limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures, pursue future business opportunities or make acquisitions. Our high level of indebtedness requires us to make large interest and principal payments. These debt service payments currently represent a significant portion of our cash flow, and if our operating cash flow decreases in the future, or if it becomes more difficult for us to arrange financing to refinance existing debt facilities or fund our new equipment purchases, we may need to reduce or delay 18 Table of Contents future capital expenditures or other business investments, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth rate, profitability and cash flow. Our asset backed securities and other credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. Our asset backed securities and other credit facilities impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions will limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase our stock; •issue capital stock of TAL and our subsidiaries; •make loans and investments; •create liens; •sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; •enter into certain transactions with stockholders and affiliates; •cause our subsidiaries to make dividends, distributions and other payments to TAL; and •otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our material container assets. Our customers may decide to lease fewer containers. Should shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate and level of investment would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenues, increased storage costs, increased positioning costs and lower growth. We, like other suppliers of leased containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines to lease rather than buy their container equipment. Should shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenues, increased storage costs and increased positioning costs. A decrease in the portion of leased containers would also reduce our investment opportunities and significantly constrain our growth. Most of the factors affecting the decisions of our customers are outside of our control. While the percentage of leased containers has been fairly consistent historically, this percentage decreased steadily from 2004 to 2008. We believe that the increasing share of containers owned directly by the shipping lines during this time was the result of the improved financial performance, increased operating scale and improved information systems of our customers, which made it easier for our customers to finance and deploy new container purchases efficiently. We face extensive competition in the container leasing industry. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive container leasing and sales business. We compete with more than ten other major leasing companies, many smaller lessors, manufacturers of container equipment, companies offering finance leases as distinct from operating leases, promoters of container ownership and leasing as a tax shelter investment, shipping lines, which 19 Table of Contents sometimes lease their excess container stocks, and suppliers of alternative types of equipment for freight transport. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. Additionally, some of these competitors may, at times, accumulate a high volume of underutilized inventories of containers, which could lead to significant downward pressure on lease rates and margins. Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others, lease rates, lease terms (including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions), customer service, and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of equipment. New entrants into the leasing business have been attracted by the high rate of containerized trade growth in recent years, and new entrants have generally been less disciplined than we are in pricing and structuring leases. As a result, the entry of new market participants together with the already highly competitive nature of our industry may reduce lease rates and undermine our ability to maintain our current level of container utilization or achieve our growth plans. Environmental regulations may result in equipment obsolescence or require substantial investments to retrofit existing equipment, especially for our refrigerated containers. Additionally, environmental concerns are leading to significant design changes for new containers that have not been extensively tested, which increases the risks we face from potential technical problems. Many countries, including the United States, restrict, prohibit or otherwise regulate the use of chemical refrigerants due to their ozone depleting and global warming effects. Over 99% of our refrigerated containers currently use R134A or 404A refrigerant. While R134A and 404A do not contain CFC's (which have been restricted since 1995), the European Union has instituted regulations to phase out the use of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems beginning in 2011 due to concern that the release of R134A into the atmosphere may contribute to global warming. While the European Union regulations do not currently restrict the use of R134A in refrigerated containers or trailers, it is possible that the phase out of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems will be extended to intermodal containers in the future. Further, certain manufacturers of refrigerated containers, including the largest manufacturer of cooling machines for refrigerated containers, have begun testing units that utilize alternative refrigerants, such as carbon dioxide, that may have less global warming potential than R134A and 404A. If future regulations prohibit the use or servicing of containers using R134A or 404A refrigerants, we could be forced to incur large retrofitting expenses. In addition, refrigerated containers that are not retrofitted may become difficult to lease and command lower rental rates and disposal prices. Also, the insulation foam in the walls of refrigerated containers requires the use of a blowing agent that contains CFC's. Manufacturers are in various stages of phasing out the use of this blowing agent in the manufacturing process, however, if future regulations prohibit the use or servicing of containers with insulation manufactured with this blowing agent we could be forced to incur large retrofitting expenses and those that are not retrofitted may become more difficult to lease and command lower rental rates and disposal prices. An additional environmental concern affecting our operations relates to the construction materials used in our dry containers. The floors of dry containers are plywood usually made from tropical hardwoods. Due to concerns regarding the de-forestation of tropical rain forests and climate change, many countries which have been the source of these hardwoods have implemented severe restrictions on the cutting and export of these woods. Accordingly, container manufacturers have switched a significant portion of production to more readily available alternatives such as birch, bamboo, and other farm grown wood species. Container users are also evaluating alternative designs that would limit the amount of plywood required and are also considering possible synthetic materials to replace the plywood. These new woods or other alternatives have not proven their durability over the typical 13-15 year life of a dry container, and if they cannot perform as well as the hardwoods have 20 Table of Contents historically, the future repair and operating costs for these containers could be significantly higher and the useful life of the containers may be decreased. Use of counterfeit and improper refrigerant in refrigeration machines for refrigerated containers could result in irreparable damage to the refrigeration machines, death or personal injury, and materially impair the value of our refrigerated container fleet. In 2011, counterfeit and improper refrigerant gas was used to service refrigeration machines, which led to the explosion of several refrigeration machines within the industry. Three of those incidents resulted in personal injury or death, and in all cases, the counterfeit gas caused irreparable damage to the refrigeration machines. Industry wide, certain standard testing procedures have been developed to determine whether a refrigeration machine has been contaminated with counterfeit or improper refrigerant gas. Although these testing procedures help identify improper refrigerants, the worldwide implementation of such tests and procedures remain in the early stages and therefore, it is possible that contaminated refrigeration machines could go undetected while they are on-hire with our customers. Operation by our customers of contaminated refrigeration machines could result in injury or damage, which could expose us to personal injury liabilities. Further, we could be unable to sell or shift the cost of repairing contaminated refrigeration machines to our customers, which could result in material impairments and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation to enforce our leases and recover our containers has inherent uncertainties that are increased by the location of our containers in jurisdictions that have less developed legal systems. While almost all of our lease agreements are governed by New York law and provide for the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located in the state of New York, our ability to enforce the lessees' obligations under the leases and other arrangements for use of the containers often is subject to applicable laws in the jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. It is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. Our containers are manufactured in Asia, primarily in China, and a substantial portion of our containers are leased out of Asia, primarily China, and are used by our customers in service between Asia and North America, Europe, Central and South America, the Middle East, and Africa and in intra-Asia trade. Litigation and enforcement proceedings have inherent uncertainties in any jurisdiction and are expensive. These uncertainties are enhanced in countries that have less developed legal systems where the interpretation of laws and regulations is not consistent, may be influenced by factors other than legal merits and may be cumbersome, time-consuming and even more expensive. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and where the legal system is not as well developed. As a result, the remedies available and the relative success and expedience of collection and enforcement proceedings with respect to the containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. As more of our business shifts to areas outside of the United States and Europe, such as China, it may become more difficult and expensive to enforce our rights and recover our containers. In 2008 and 2009, the success of our recovery efforts for defaulted leases was hampered by undeveloped creditor protections and legal systems in a number of countries. In 2008, we experienced an increase in average recovery costs per unit and a decrease in the percentage of containers recovered in default situations primarily due to excessive charges applied to our containers by the depot or terminal facilities that had been storing the containers for the defaulted lessee. In these cases, the payments demanded by the depot or terminal operators often significantly exceeded the amount of storage costs that we would reasonably expect to pay for the release of the containers. However, our 21 Table of Contents legal remedies were limited in many of the jurisdictions where the containers were being stored, and we were sometimes forced to accept the excessive storage charges to gain control of our containers. If the number and size of defaults increases in the future, and if a large percentage of the defaulted containers are being stored in countries with less developed legal systems, losses resulting from recovery payments and unrecovered containers could be large and our profitability significantly reduced. We may incur future asset impairment charges. An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows generated from our long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including our container and chassis equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We may be required to recognize asset impairment charges in the future as a result of reductions in demand for specific container and chassis types, a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, events related to particular customers or asset types, or as a result of asset or portfolio sale decisions by management. Effective October 1, 2012, we further increased the estimated residual values used in our depreciation calculations for several of our containers types from the last increase made in the fourth quarter of 2010. If, in the future, we experience weak demand for these specific container types the amount of a potential impairment charge would be higher than if we had not increased our residual estimates. Manufacturers of our equipment may be unwilling or unable to honor manufacturer warranties covering defects in our equipment. We obtain warranties from the manufacturers of our equipment. When defects in the containers occur, we work with the manufacturers to identify and rectify the problem. However, there is no assurance that manufacturers will be willing or able to honor warranty obligations. If defects are discovered in containers that are not covered by manufacturer warranties we could be required to expend significant amounts of money to repair the containers, the useful lives of the containers could be shortened and the value of the containers reduced. For example, there has been an increase in the number of premature failures of wood floors on our containers. A shortage of mature tropical hardwood has forced manufacturers to use younger and alternative species of wood to make container floors, and it is likely that the number and magnitude of warranty claims related to premature floor failure will increase. If container manufacturers do not honor warranties covering these failures, or if the failures occur after the warranty period expires, we could be required to expend significant amounts of money to repair or sell containers earlier than expected. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Changes in market price or availability of containers in China could adversely affect our ability to maintain our supply of containers. China is currently the largest container producing nation in the world, and we currently purchase substantially all of our dry containers, special containers and refrigerated containers from manufacturers based there. In addition, over the last several years, there has been a consolidation in the container manufacturing industry, resulting in two manufacturers controlling a majority of the market. In the event that it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in China because of further consolidation among container suppliers, a dispute with one of our manufacturers, increased tariffs imposed by the United States or other governments or for any other reason, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. We may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our equipment needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. 22 Table of Contents We may incur costs associated with relocation of leased equipment. When lessees return equipment to locations where supply exceeds demand, we routinely reposition containers to higher demand areas. Positioning expenses vary depending on geographic location, distance, freight rates and other factors, and may not be fully covered by drop-off charges collected from the last lessees of the equipment or pick-up charges paid by the new lessees. Positioning expenses can be significant if a large portion of our containers are returned to locations with weak demand. For example, prior to the Asia crisis of the late 1990's containerized trade was relatively evenly balanced globally, and as a result, many of our lease contracts provided extensive drop-off flexibility in North America and Europe. However, global containerized trade patterns changed dramatically in the aftermath of the Asia crisis, and demand for leased containers in North America and Europe substantially decreased. We incurred significant positioning expenses from 2000-2003 to shift our inventory of containers from North America and Europe to Asia. We currently seek to limit the number of containers that can be returned to areas where demand for such containers is not expected to be strong. However, future market conditions may not enable us to continue such practices. In addition, we cannot assure you that we have accurately anticipated which port locations will be characterized by weak or strong demand in the future, and our current contracts will not provide much protection against positioning costs if ports that we expect to be strong demand ports turn out to be surplus container ports at the time leases expire. In particular, we could incur significant positioning costs in the future if trade flows change from net exports to net imports in locations such as the main ports in China that we currently consider to be high demand locations and where our leases typically allow large numbers of containers to be returned to us. Sustained Asian economic, social or political instability could reduce demand for leasing. Many of the shipping lines to which we lease containers are entities domiciled in Asian countries. In addition, many of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been economic disruptions, financial turmoil and political instability in this region. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect these customers and lead to reduced demand for leasing of our containers or otherwise adversely affect us. It may become more expensive for us to store our off-hire containers. We are dependent on third party depot operators to repair and store our equipment in port areas throughout the world. In many locations the land occupied by these depots is increasingly being considered as prime real estate. Accordingly, local communities are considering increasing restrictions on the depot operations which would increase their costs and in some cases force depots to relocate to sites further from the port areas. If these changes affect a large number of our depots it could significantly increase the cost of maintaining and storing our off-hire containers. We rely on our information technology systems to conduct our business. If these systems fail to adequately perform their functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on two of our information technology systems: our equipment tracking and billing system and our customer interface system. For example, these systems allow customers to place pick-up and drop-off orders on the Internet, view current inventory and check contractual terms in effect with respect to any given container lease agreement. We correspondingly rely on such information systems to track transactions, such as container pick-ups and drop-offs, repairs, and to bill our customers for the use and damage to our equipment. We also use the information provided by these systems in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio and improve customer service. The failure of these systems to perform as 23 Table of Contents we anticipate could limit our ability to bill customers for the use of our containers, disrupt our business and cause our relationships with our customers to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses. Any such interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of key personnel are critical to the success of our business. Most of our senior executives and other management level employees have been with us for over ten years and have significant industry experience. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain our senior management, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success also depends on our ability to retain our experienced sales force and technical personnel as well as recruiting new skilled sales, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for experienced managers in our industry can be intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to retain customers and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. The international nature of the container industry exposes us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: •regional or local economic downturns; •changes in governmental policy or regulation; •restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of countries in which we operate; •compliance with U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting doing business with certain nations or specially designated nationals; •import and export duties and quotas; •domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; •international incidents; •military outbreaks; •government instability; •nationalization of foreign assets; •government protectionism; •compliance with export controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce; •compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; •potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; •requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; •labor or other disruptions at key ports; •difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and 24 Table of Contents •restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions. Any one or more of these factors could impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our overall business. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. There is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interests in containers. Although this has not occurred to date, the lack of a title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties who may improperly claim ownership of the containers. Certain liens may arise on our containers. Depot operators, repairmen and transporters may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have sums due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers, or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge such liens on the containers. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and a determination that we violated this act may affect our business and operations adversely. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury Sanctions Regulations regarding doing business in or with certain nations and specially designated nationals (SDNs). As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain SDNs (individuals and legal entities). Any determination that we have violated such Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur increased costs associated with the implementation of new security regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the United States, seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Safety Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the United States. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972 (CSC), as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may 25 Table of Contents incur increased compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet any new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our customers may require that we adopt such products in the conduct of our container leasing business. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks could negatively impact our operations and our profitability and may expose us to liability and reputational damage. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. Such attacks have contributed to economic instability in the United States and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence or war could similarly affect world trade and the industries in which we and our customers operate. In addition, terrorist attacks or hostilities may directly impact ports our containers come in and out of, depots, our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could impact our sales and our supply chain. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade and lower demand for our containers. The consequences of any terrorist attacks or hostilities are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our operations. It is also possible that one of our containers could be involved in a terrorist attack. Although our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us against all damages arising out of the use of our containers, and we carry insurance to potentially offset any costs in the event that our customer indemnifications prove to be insufficient, our insurance does not cover certain types of terrorist attacks, and we may not be fully protected from liability or the reputational damage that could arise from a terrorist attack which utilizes one of our containers. Environmental liability may adversely affect our business and financial situation. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the United States and certain other countries, the owner of a leased container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from a container without regard to the owner's fault. We have not yet experienced any such claims, although we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Liability insurance policies, including ours, usually exclude claims for environmental damage. Some of our lessees may have separate insurance coverage for environmental damage, but we cannot assure you that any such policies would cover or otherwise offset any liability we may have as the owner of a leased container. Our standard master tank container lease agreement insurance clause requires our tank container lessees to provide pollution liability insurance. Such insurance or indemnities may not fully protect us against damages arising from environmental damage. 26 Table of Contents Adverse changes in U.S. tax rules or business conditions could negatively impact our income tax provision or future cash payments. While we record a tax provision in our financial statements, we currently do not pay any meaningful income taxes primarily due to the benefit we receive from accelerated tax depreciation on our container investments. A change in the rules governing the tax depreciation for our containers, in particular, a change that increases the period over which we can depreciate our containers for tax purposes, could reduce or eliminate this tax benefit and significantly increase our cash tax payments. In addition, even under current tax rules, we need to make substantial, ongoing investments in new containers in order to continue to benefit from the tax deferral generated by accelerated tax depreciation. If our investment level slows due to a decrease in the growth rate of world trade, decisions by our customers to buy more of their containers, a loss of market share to one or more of our peers, or for any other reason, the favorable tax treatment from accelerated tax depreciation would diminish, and we could face significantly increased cash tax payments. Also, our net deferred tax liability balance includes a deferred tax asset for U.S. federal and various states resulting from net operating loss carryforwards. A reduction to our future earnings, which will lower taxable income, may require us to record a charge against earnings in the form of a valuation allowance, if it is determined that it is more-likely-than-not that some or all of the loss carryforwards will not be realized. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could reduce our profitability. The majority of our revenues and costs are billed in U.S. dollars. Most of our non-U.S. dollar transactions are individually of small amounts and in various denominations and thus are not suitable for cost-effective hedging. In addition, almost all of our container purchases are paid for in U.S. dollars. Our operations and used container sales in locations outside of the U.S. have some exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, and trade growth and the direction of trade flows can be influenced by large changes in relative currency values. Adverse or large exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Most of our equipment fleet is manufactured in China. Although the purchase price is in U.S. dollars, our manufacturers pay labor and other costs in the local currency, the Chinese Yuan. To the extent that our manufacturers' costs increase due to changes in the valuation of the Chinese Yuan, the dollar price we pay for equipment could be affected. Increases in the cost of or the lack of availability of insurance could increase our risk exposure and reduce our profitability. Our lessees and depots are required to maintain all risks physical damage insurance, comprehensive general liability insurance and to indemnify us against loss. We also maintain our own contingent liability insurance and off-hire physical damage insurance. Nevertheless, lessees' and depots' insurance or indemnities and our insurance may not fully protect us. The cost of such insurance may increase or become prohibitively expensive for us and our customers and such insurance may not continue to be available. We also maintain director and officer liability insurance. Potential new accounting standards and new corporate governance regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain increased levels of coverage or it may not continue to be available. We currently maintain credit insurance that in certain circumstances covers losses and costs incurred due to defaults by our lessees. However, this insurance has significant deductibles, exclusions, 27 Table of Contents payment and other limitations, and therefore may not protect us from losses arising from customer defaults. We typically need to renew these insurance policies on an annual basis, and the cost of such insurance may increase or become prohibitively expensive for us and our customers and such insurance may not continue to be available. The price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common shares is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common shares may include: •variations in our financial results; •changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; •the public's response to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; •future sales of common stock by us and our directors, officers and significant stockholders; •announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; •our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts' projections; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; •changes in our dividend policy; •fluctuations in the worldwide equity markets; •recruitment or departure of key personnel; •our failure to timely address changing customer preferences; •broad market and industry factors; and •other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. In addition, if the market for intermodal equipment leasing company stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results. The trading price of our common shares might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Future sales of shares of our common stock by us or certain original investors could cause our stock price to decline. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that expires on December 29, 2013. Following our public offering on April 6, 2011, in which certain original investors in TAL also sold common stock, the effective shelf registration statement enables us to issue additional public debt and equity securities up to $210 million. The price of our shares could be negatively impacted if we or any of the original investors in TAL undertake an offering to sell additional shares pursuant to this shelf registration, or otherwise. 28 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common shares relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business or our industry. We have no influence or control over these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. As a U.S. publicly held company, we must comply with new and existing federal financial rules and regulations, including those issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and we are required to prepare and report our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our failure to comply with required public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and the price of our common stock. Further, our internal controls over financial reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Interactive Data Filings—We are required to submit and post certain interactive data files when we report our quarterly financial statements on Form 10-Q and our annual financial statements on Form 10-K. While our interactive data files are subject to a thorough and rigorous review, there could be errors or omissions in those files, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities as a result. Errors or omissions in our interactive data files could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act")—The Dodd-Frank Act introduced certain new rules and regulations that require companies to make additional disclosures including those related to corporate governance and, in certain instances, the use of products containing certain types of minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. Noncompliance with these disclosure requirements, or any of the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. Accounting for Leases—In August 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board (jointly, the "Boards") issued Proposed Accounting Standards Update—Leases (Topic 840). The Boards have subsequently indicated that revisions would be made to the new lease accounting model proposed in this Exposure Draft and that they intend to issue another exposure draft with their revised proposals. The proposed lease accounting model, in its current form, differs significantly from current practice. Most notably it would require lessors to record receivables related to their right to receive lease payments and residual value assets on their balance sheets, and would result in the front-loading of lease-related income for certain types of leases. Further, it would require lessees to record leased assets and related liabilities on their balance sheets, and would result in the front-loading of lease-related expenses for certain types of leases. If this proposed lease accounting model becomes effective in its current or in a similar form, it could significantly impact our customers' lease versus buy decisions and could, therefore, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes Oxley Act")—The Sarbanes Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we do not maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our 29 Table of Contents stock to decline. We can also be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities for failure to comply with public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of internal controls over financial accounting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act and related regulations. Although our management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are currently in place, no system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of material errors. As a result, the risk exists that our internal controls may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. We may decide to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures that may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We may selectively pursue acquisitions and joint ventures, which could involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: •potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •difficulty with integration of personnel and financial and other systems; •hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and •increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition and joint venture strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 