Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. Risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect our business and operation. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Risks Related to Our Business Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of our secured loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we analyze our loan portfolio based on our historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. As of December 31, 2006, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $26.1 million, or 1.8% of our total loans receivable. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current allowance may be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and increased loan loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have a negative effect on our operating results. Because we have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, a downturn in the real estate market could result in losses and materially and adversely affect business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 80.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that we would be required to increase our provision for loan losses. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In Northwest Arkansas, the number of residential real estate lots and commercial real estate projects available exceed the current demand. For example, “The Skyline Report” published in February 2007 by the University of Arkansas, reported that the current absorption rate implies that the supply of remaining lots in northwest Arkansas active subdivisions is sufficient for 47.0 months. Management’s failure to monitor the status of the market and make the necessary changes could have a negative effect on operating results. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $21.3 million in loan participations with our unconsolidated affiliate White River Bancshares, Inc. in northwest Arkansas. Because we have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, a significant loss on any of those loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, each of our bank subsidiaries is generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 20% of their respective capital in the case of our Arkansas bank subsidiaries, and 15% of capital (25% on secured loans) in the case of our Florida bank subsidiary. Historically, when our bank subsidiaries have lending relationships that exceed their individual loan to one 22 Table of Contents borrower limitation, the overline, or amount in excess of the subsidiary bank’s legal lending limit, is participated to our other bank subsidiaries. As a result, on a consolidated basis we may have aggregate exposure to individual or related borrowers in excess of each individual bank subsidiary’s legal lending limit. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate legal lending limit of our bank subsidiaries for secured loans was approximately $38.7 million. Currently, our board of directors has established an in-house consolidated lending limit of $16.0 million to any one borrowing relationship without obtaining the approval of our Chairman and our Vice Chairman. As of December 31, 2006, we had 14 borrowing relationships where we had a commitment to loan in excess of $10.0 million, with the aggregate amount of those commitments totaling approximately $240.8 million. The largest of those commitments to one borrowing relationship was $27.3 million, which is 11.8% of our consolidated shareholders’ equity. Given the size of these loan relationships relative to our capital levels and earnings, a significant loss on any one of these loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. The unexpected loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our success depends significantly on our executive officers, especially John W. Allison, Ron W. Strother, Randy E. Mayor, and on the presidents of our bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiaries, in particular, rely heavily on their management team’s relationships in their local communities to generate business. Because we do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with our employees, our executive officers and bank presidents are free to resign at any time and accept an employment offer from another company, including a competitor. The loss of services from a member of our current management team may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through the acquisition of banks, de novo branching, and the organization of new banks represents an important component of our business strategy. Although we have no present plans to acquire any financial institution or financial services provider, any future acquisitions we might make will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • credit risk associated with the acquired bank’s loans and investments; • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • potential disruption of our ongoing business. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we plan to continue de novo branching, and we may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not, however, have any current plans to organize a new bank. De novo branching and any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; 23 Table of Contents • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions, de novo branching and the organization of new banks. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits, the products and services we offer, and the scale of our operations, generally, both internally and through acquisitions. If we continue to grow rapidly, we may not be able to control costs and maintain our asset quality. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, this rapid growth could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with our acquisitions of bank subsidiaries which would have a negative impact upon our future income. Our growth strategy includes strategic acquisitions of bank subsidiaries. We acquired three bank subsidiaries in 2005, and will continue to consider strategic acquisitions, with a primary focus on Arkansas and southwestern Florida. In most cases, our acquisition of a bank includes the acquisition of all of the target bank’s assets and liabilities, including its loan portfolio. There may be instances when we, under our normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of the target bank, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below our standards, or the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause us to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs, or increases in allowances for loan losses, which would have a negative impact upon our future income. An economic downturn, natural disaster or act of terrorism, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business is affected by prevailing economic conditions in the United States, including inflation and unemployment rates, but is particularly subject to the local economies in Arkansas, the Florida Keys and southwestern Florida. Our relatively small size and our geographic concentration expose us to greater risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than the larger national or regional banks in our market areas. Adverse changes in local economic factors, such as population growth trends, income levels, deposits and housing starts, may adversely affect our operations. We are at risk of natural disaster or acts of terrorism, even if our market areas are not primarily affected. Our Florida market, in particular, is subject to risks from hurricanes, which may damage or dislocate our facilities, damage or destroy collateral, adversely affect the livelihood of borrowers or otherwise cause significant economic dislocation in areas we serve. If and when economic conditions deteriorate, either in our local market areas or nationwide, we may experience a reduction in the demand for our products and services and deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio and consequently have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive. We experience strong competition, not only from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, but also from mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other financial institutions operating in or near our market areas. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. 24 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are much larger national and regional financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage against them as a result of our smaller size and resources and our lack of geographic diversification. We also compete against community banks that have strong local ties. These smaller institutions are likely to cater to the same small and mid-sized businesses that we target and to use a relationship-based approach similar to ours. In addition, our competitors may seek to gain market share by pricing below the current market rates for loans and paying higher rates for deposits. Competitive pressures can adversely affect our profitability. Our recent results do not indicate our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We are unlikely to sustain our historical rate of growth, and may not even be able to expand our business at all. Further, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a strong residential housing market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to raise the additional capital we need to grow and, as a result, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us and our bank subsidiaries to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe that our capital will be sufficient to support our current operations and anticipated expansion, factors such as faster than anticipated growth, reduced earning levels, operating losses, changes in economic conditions, revisions in regulatory requirements, or additional acquisition opportunities may lead us to seek additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance and on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. If we need additional capital but cannot raise it on terms acceptable to us, our ability to expand our operations could be materially impaired. We are considered by the Federal Reserve Board to be a source of “financial strength” for White River Bancshares and may be required to support its capital. We hold a 20% ownership interest in White River Bancshares, Inc., a bank holding company headquartered in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Our minority ownership means that we lack effective power to control the operations of the holding company. We are, nevertheless, considered by the Federal Reserve Board to be a source of financial strength for that holding company. As a result, we may be required to contribute sufficient funds for White River Bancshares to meet regulatory capital requirements if it is unable to raise funds from other sources. An obligation to support White River Bancshares may be required at times when, in the absence of this Federal Reserve Board policy, we might not be inclined to provide it. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2006, White River Bancshares had total assets of $343.2 million, total shareholders’ equity of $55.5 million, and a net operating loss of $2.0 million. The capital ratios for White River Bancshares’ wholly-owned bank subsidiary, Signature Bank of Arkansas, at year-end and the minimum ratios required to be considered “well capitalized” were: leverage ratio, 15.66% (5.0% required); Tier 1 capital ratio, 17.25% (6.0% required); and total risk-based capital ratio, 18.48% (10.0% required). We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock. Although we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock since the second quarter of 2003 and expect to continue this practice, we cannot assure you of our ability to continue. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others: • We may not have sufficient earnings since our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to us by our bank subsidiaries, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of these banks to pay dividends. 25 Table of Contents • Federal Reserve Board policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. • Before dividends may be paid on our common stock in any year, payments must be made on our subordinated debentures. • Our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy. If we fail to pay dividends, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our company. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant control over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own approximately 33.3% of our common stock. Consequently, if they vote their shares in concert, they can significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our officers and directors may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock, and they may take actions affecting our company with which you disagree. The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. We have $44.8 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations and monetary policy. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, and thus subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Consequently, our results of operations can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risk. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income or a decrease in interest rate spread. In addition to affecting our profitability, changes in interest rates can impact the valuation of our assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2006, our one-year ratio of interest-rate-sensitive assets to interest-rate-sensitive liabilities was 99.2% and our cumulative gap position was -1.1% of total earning assets, resulting in a minimum impact on earnings for various interest rate change scenarios. Floating rate loans made up 38.8% of our $1.42 billion loan portfolio. In addition, 71.1% of our loans receivable and 85.0% of our time deposits were scheduled to reprice within 12 months and our other rate sensitive asset and rate sensitive liabilities composition is subject to change. Significant composition changes in our rate sensitive assets or liabilities could result in a more unbalanced position and interest rate changes would have more of an impact to our earnings. Our results of operations are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by the Federal Reserve Board involving monetary policies could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. We are a registered financial holding company primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiaries are also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Arkansas State Bank Department or Florida Office of Financial Regulation. Complying with banking industry regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements by our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions. Recently, banks generally have faced increased regulatory sanctions and scrutiny, particularly under the USA Patriot Act and statutes that promote customer privacy or seek to prevent money laundering. As regulation of the banking industry continues to evolve, we expect the costs of compliance to continue to increase and, thus, to affect our ability to operate profitably. We are subject to the many requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq. These laws and regulations increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. Although we are accustomed to conducting business in a highly regulated environment, these laws and regulations have different requirements for compliance than we have previously experienced. Our expenses for accounting, legal and consulting services have increased because of the new obligations we are facing as a public company. In addition, the sudden application of these requirements to our business has resulted in some cultural adjustments and may strain our management resources. To date, we have not conducted a comprehensive review and confirmation of the adequacy of our existing systems and controls as will be required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If that is the case, we intend to take the necessary steps to correct any deficiencies. These steps may be costly and strain our resources. A decline in the market price for our common stock may result if we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Associated With Our Stock Our stock price is affected by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for investors to resell shares of our common stock at times and prices they find attractive. Our common stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and • perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors. Our stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of our common stock are listed for trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given 27 Table of Contents the daily average trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any other company. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are currently no unresolved Commission staff comments. 