Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investment in our securities is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. General Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management and founders. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation and execution of our business strategy and result in the failure to reach our goals. We do not carry key person life insurance for any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel in the diverse areas required for continuing our operations. The rapid growth of the economy in the PRC has caused intense competition for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks and we have a limited history of successful acquisitions. Even when an acquisition is completed, we may have integration issues that may not produce results as positive as management may have projected. We have completed six acquisitions since 2006, including the Lushan hog farm acquisition in November 2007 and the acquisition of controlling interests in the Waanian, Huyun, Ganzhou, Gang Feng and Yichun hog farms in January 2008. We intend to continue to look for strategic acquisitions to grow both our feed product and hog farming lines of business. We are regularly engaged in acquisition discussions with a number of companies located in the PRC and anticipate that one or more potential acquisition opportunities, including those that would be material, may become available in the near future. If and when appropriate acquisition opportunities become available, we intend to pursue them actively. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: • failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results; • diversion of management’s attention; • failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • additional financing, if necessary and available, could increase leverage, dilute equity, or both; • the potential negative effect on our financial statements from the increase in goodwill and other intangibles; and • the high cost and expenses of completing acquisitions and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to further expand our operations through acquisitions may be dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient working capital, either through cash flows generated through operations or financing activities or both. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. 15 We have faced, and expect to continue to face, increased competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of opportunities we have to acquire companies and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, acquire, or manage profitably additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses into our existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In future acquisitions, we also could incur additional indebtedness or pay consideration in excess of fair value, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may inadvertently assume unknown liabilities in acquisitions that we complete. Assumption of unknown liabilities in acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. Rising energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for our branded feed products. Rising energy prices could adversely affect demand for our feed products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. Risks Related to the Conduct of Our Feed Product Business We cannot be certain that our feed product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our past performance has been based on, and our future success will depend upon, in part, our ability to continue to improve our existing feed products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new feed products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and production of any new feed products or feed product innovations, or that we will develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing feed products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new feed products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on independently owned wholesale distributors who do not exclusively offer our feed products to their customers. The loss of, or significant adverse change in, our relationship with any of our key wholesale distributors of our feed products could cause our net sales, income from operations and cash flow to decline. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. We may not be able to reach our revenue and net income targets due to unpredictable market conditions. Our primary end-user customers for our feed products are commercial hog farms, individual farmers and slaughterhouses. Although hog prices in the PRC have reached multi-year highs, we cannot predict how long such a favorable environment may last or predict the buying behavior of our customers as they adjust to market conditions. Therefore, our market expectations and projections may exceed our actual financial performance. We are a major purchaser of many commodities that we use for raw materials and packaging, and price changes for the commodities we depend on may adversely affect our profitability. We enter into contracts for the purchase of raw materials at fixed prices, which are designed to protect us against raw material price increases during their term. However, when necessary, we attempt to recover our commodity cost increases by increasing prices, promoting a higher-margin product mix and creating additional 16 operating efficiencies. Nevertheless, the raw materials used in our feed business are largely commodities that experience price fluctuations caused by external conditions and changes in governmental agricultural programs. We also use paper products, such as corrugated cardboard, aluminum products, films and plastics to package our feed products. Substantial increases in the prices of packaging materials or higher prices of our raw materials could adversely affect our operating performance and financial results. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material and packaging costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and income. Any substantial fluctuation in the prices of raw materials, if not offset by increases in our sales prices, could adversely affect our profitability. Outbreaks of livestock disease can adversely affect sales of our products. Outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect demand for our feed products. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the sale of livestock products to or from customers, or require our customers to destroy their flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders of feed products by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on the agricultural products industry and our ability to market our products successfully. Our products and processes can expose us to product liability claims. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation and expose us to increased scrutiny by local, provincial, and central governmental regulators. The packaging, marketing and distribution of agricultural feed products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death of livestock, other animals or humans. We could be required to recall certain of our feed products in the event of contamination or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our feed products. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to perform product recalls, or that product liability claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our feed products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our feed products. The manufacture and sale of agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the central government and the local provincial governments. Although our licenses and regulatory filings are current, the uncertain legal environment in the PRC and within our industry may make us vulnerable to local government agencies or other parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of, or terminate their agreements or other understandings with us. We require various licenses and permits to operate our business, and the loss of or failure to renew any or all of those licenses and permits could require us to suspend some or all of our production or distribution operations. In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our feed business. We are required to comply with applicable hygiene and food safety standards in relation to our feed production processes. Our premises and transportation vehicles are subject to regular inspections by the regulatory authorities for compliance with applicable regulations. Failure to pass these inspections, or the loss of or failure to renew our licenses and permits, could require us to temporarily or permanently suspend some or all of our feed production or distribution operations, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 17 We face significant competition in the sales of our agricultural feed products. Competition in the agricultural feed industry, especially with companies with greater resources, may make us unable to compete successfully in these industries, which could adversely affect our business. In general, the competitive factors in the agricultural feed industry in the PRC include: · price; · product quality; · brand identification; · breadth of product line; and · customer service. To the extent that our products and services do not exhibit these qualities, our ability to compete will be hindered. Concerns with the safety and quality of agricultural feed products could cause customers to avoid our products. We could be adversely affected if our customers and the ultimate consumers of our feed products lose confidence in the safety and quality of various feed products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, such as the recent publicity concerning the substance melamine, whether or not valid, may discourage our customers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any negative change in customer perceptions about the safety and quality of our feed products could adversely affect our business and financial condition. If our feed products become adulterated or misbranded, we would need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured as a result. Animal feed products occasionally contain contaminants due to inherent defects in those products or improper storage or handling. Under adverse circumstances, animal feed manufacturers may need to recall some of their products if they become adulterated or misbranded, and may also be liable if the consumption of any of their products causes injury. While we have never been required to recall any of our feed products and we maintain insurance that we believe is adequate to cover this type of loss, a widespread product recall could result in changes to one or more of our business processes, product shortages, loss of customer confidence in our food or other adverse effects on our business. If we are required to defend against a product liability claim, whether or not we are found liable under the claim, we could incur substantial costs, our reputation could suffer and our customers might substantially reduce their existing or future orders from us. We may not be able to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property, trademark, and brand names. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and market fodder and blended feed products. We currently have not applied for patents for our products or formulas, as our management believes an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Since we do not have patent protection for our technology or formulas, we may not be able to protect our rights to this intellectual property if our competitors discover or illegally obtain this technology or formulas. Our inability to protect our rights to this intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to prevent competitors from using our products and developments. Some of our significant customer and supplier contracts are short-term. Some of our feed customers and suppliers operate through purchase orders or short-term contracts. Although we have long-term business relationships with many of our feed customers and suppliers and alternative sources of supply for key items, we cannot be sure that any of these customers or suppliers will continue to do 18 business with us on the same basis. Additionally, although we will try to renew these contracts as they expire, there can be no assurance that these customers or suppliers will renew these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. The termination of or modification to any number of these contracts may adversely affect our business and prospects, including our financial performance and results of operations. Risks Related to the Conduct of Our Hog Farming Business Our limited operating history in hog farming makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in the hog farming business. While we are a leader in the feed product industry, the current management team does not have the same depth of experience in the hog farming business. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving markets such as the market for breeding and selling hogs in the PRC. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty in the hog farming line of business; · respond to competitive market conditions; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Health risks to hogs and quality concerns could adversely affect production and our business. We take precautions to ensure that our hogs are healthy. Nevertheless, we are subject to risks relating to our ability to maintain animal health and control diseases. Disease can reduce the number of offspring produced, hamper the growth of the hogs to finished size and require in some cases the destruction of infected hogs, all of which could adversely affect our ability sell our hogs. Adverse publicity concerning any disease or heath concern could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our hogs. For example, blue ear disease, or PRRS, could result in significant loss in production of hogs. The PRC lost over 10 million pigs to PRRS in 2006 and 2007. Additionally, since our hogs will be fed almost exclusively with our feed products, safety and quality concerns over our feed products will also adversely affect the sales of our hogs. We may not be able to maintain the necessary hog farming licenses. Each province in the PRC requires hog farmers to obtain a license for each hog farm owned and operated in that province. Currently, all of our hog farms are located in the Jiangxi province and we have obtained a license to own and operate each of our hog farms. We need to maintain the licenses we have to operate our current hog farms. If we pursue acquisitions of other hog farms, we will need to obtain additional licenses to operate those farms. We have not yet applied for, nor have we obtained, all the licenses required to expand our hog farming and sales business throughout the PRC. Our future success in the hog farming industry depends on our ability to acquire such licenses and permits to expand our business. Our hog farming business could be adversely affected by fluctuations in pork commodity prices. The price at which we sell our hogs is directly affected by the supply and demand for pork products and other proteins in the PRC, all of which are determined by the constantly changing market forces of supply and demand as well as other factors over which we have little or no control. A downward fluctuation in the demand for pork may adversely impact our quarterly and annual results of operations for the hog farming business. 19 Risks Related to Conducting Our Business in the PRC We are subject to international economic and political risks over which we have little or no control, and may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. All of our business is conducted in the PRC. Doing business outside the United States, and particularly in the PRC, subjects us to various risks and uncertainties, including changing economic and political conditions, major work stoppages, exchange rate controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions. Therefore, we may be unable to alter our business practice in time to avoid the possibility of reduced revenues. The PRC’s economic policies could affect our business. All of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenue is derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. While the PRC’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of the PRC, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, operating results and financial conditions may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of the PRC has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises. However, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired various companies with operations in the PRC. If any of these acquisitions were reviewed by PRC regulatory agencies or found not to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we might be required to make filings or submissions to PRC regulators or amend the terms of such acquisitions to meet PRC regulatory requirements. We are rapidly expanding our operations in the PRC and have completed several acquisitions in the last year. While we believe that each of our acquisitions has complied with all PRC laws and regulations applicable to such transactions, the regulatory environment that governs merger and acquisition transactions in the PRC has continued to evolve in recent years and remains subject to interpretation by the agencies that have responsibility for reviewing or approving such transactions. In particular, a new law became effective in September 2006 that has a broad scope applicable to certain merger and acquisition transactions involving companies organized outside of the PRC. If any of the acquisitions we completed were reviewed by a PRC regulator, it is possible that we may be required to demonstrate how the transaction under review complied with applicable PRC laws, including the law that took effect in September 2006. This could require us to expend company resources that would otherwise be used to manage our company. Further, if such regulators determine that any of our transactions did not comply with applicable regulations, we may be required to renegotiate or revise the terms of the acquisition with the counterparties to the affected transaction. If such a scenario were to occur, we cannot be sure that our efforts to meet the regulator’s requirements would be successful, or that such efforts would not have an adverse effect on our operations. 20 We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has not adopted a Western style of management, financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may also experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records. Our bank accounts are not insured or protected against loss. We maintain our cash with various banks and trust companies located in the PRC. Our cash accounts are not insured or otherwise protected. Should any bank or trust company holding our cash deposits become insolvent, or if we are otherwise unable to withdraw funds, we would lose the cash on deposit with that particular bank or trust company. As we have limited business insurance coverage in the PRC, any loss which we suffer may not be insured or may be insured to only a limited extent. The insurance industry in the PRC is still in an early stage of development and insurance companies located in the PRC offer limited business insurance products. In the event of damage or loss to our properties, our insurance may not provide as much coverage as if we were insured by insurance companies in the United States. We may face judicial corruption in the PRC. Another obstacle to foreign investment in the PRC is corruption. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain recourse in any legal disputes with suppliers, customers or other parties with whom we conduct business, if desired, through the PRC’s poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. We may face obstacles from the communist system in the PRC. Foreign companies conducting operations in the PRC face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in the PRC, including a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. If relations between the United States and the PRC worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and the PRC have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and the PRC, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. The government of the PRC could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of our and your investment. Our business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be affected by political, economic and social developments in the PRC. Over the past several years, the government of the PRC has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The government of the PRC may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretations or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, or devaluations of currency could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, should a market for our common stock ever develop. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total loss of your investment. 21 If the PRC enacts regulations in more industry segments that forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in the PRC are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in our industry, they could severely impair our business or opportunities for acquisitions. Additionally, if the relevant PRC authorities find us to be in violation of any existing or future laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: ● levying fines; ● revoking our business and other licenses; ● requiring that we restructure ownership or operations; and ● requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. The nature and application of many laws of the PRC create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The legal system in the PRC is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes where decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Although we do not import goods into or export goods out of the PRC, fluctuation of the Renminbi (RMB) may indirectly affect our financial condition by affecting the volume of cross-border money flow. Although we use the United States dollar for financial reporting purposes, all of the transactions effected by our operating subsidiaries are denominated in the PRC’s RMB. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. We do not currently engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risks. Even if we chose to engage in such hedging activates, we may not be able to do so effectively. Future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could adversely affect our financial condition as we may suffer financial losses when transferring money raised outside of China into the country or paying vendors for services performed outside of China. Recent changes in the PRC’s currency policies may cause a target business’s ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished. Historically, the PRC “pegged” its currency to the U.S. dollar. This meant that each unit of PRC currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the PRC currency low when compared to other countries gave PRC companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from outside countries, the PRC recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value. As a result of this policy reform, we may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a United States holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends, if any, at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of 22 the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the spot rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. The admission of the PRC into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition for us. Domestic competition in the animal feed industry is largely fragmented and foreign competition is minimal. However, as a result of the PRC becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), import restrictions on agricultural products are expected to be reduced. The lowering of import restrictions and the WTO’s requirement for a reduction of import tariffs as a condition of membership may result in an increase of foreign products, and could in turn lead to increased competition in the domestic agricultural market. Risks Related to our Securities It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in the PRC. As our executive officers and several of our directors, including the chairman of our Board of Directors, are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a stockholder or group of stockholders in the United States. Also, because our operating subsidiaries and assets are located in the PRC, it may be extremely difficult or impossible for investors to access those assets to enforce judgments rendered against us or our directors or executive officers by United States courts. In addition, the courts in the PRC may not permit the enforcement of judgments arising out of United States federal and state corporate, securities or similar laws. Accordingly, United States investors may not be able to enforce judgments against us for violation of United States securities laws. Our common stock price is subject to significant volatility, which could result in substantial losses for investors. During the eight month period ended August 28, 2007, the high and low bid prices of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) were $8.25 per share and $1.85 per share, respectively. Since our commencement of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market on August 29, 2007 until February 28, 2008, the high and low sales prices of our common stock were $16.36 and $7.11. Prices for our shares are determined in the marketplace and may accordingly be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: · the depth and liquidity of the market for the shares; · quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; · announcements about our performance as well as the announcements of our competitors about the performance of their businesses; · investors’ evaluations of our future prospects and the food industry generally; · changes in earnings estimates by, or failure to meet the expectations of, securities analysts; · our dividend policy; and · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. 23 The price at which investors purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. Investors may be unable to sell their shares of common stock at or above their purchase price, which may result in substantial losses. Shares of our common stock lack a significant trading market. On August 29, 2007, shares of our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On October 12, 2007, shares of our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market. Since August 29, 2007 through February 28, 2008, our average daily trading volume has been less than 75,000 shares per day. As with most initial listings on Nasdaq, it will take time for a significant active trading market in our common stock to develop. There can be no assurance that a significant active trading market in our common stock will develop, or if such a market develops, that it will be sustained. We believe we have material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting and if we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud; as a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock, as well as our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. A consultant we recently hired to assist us with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has informed us that, based on the preliminary analysis conducted to date, the consultant has identified material deficiencies in our finance and information technology controls which result in material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, for each of our Annual Reports going forward, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we have our independent registered public accounting firm annually attest to our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. We plan to prepare for compliance with Section 404 by further developing, strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. We have only recently hired a consultant to assist us with these activities. The process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention, especially given that we have only recently undertaken any efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404. We cannot be certain that the measures we will undertake will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our disclosure controls and our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting that we will need will become more complex, and significantly more resources will be required to ensure our controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or could result in a complete and material restatement of any part or all of our financial statements. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness in our internal controls or disclosure controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if the weakness is quickly remedied, could diminish investors’ confidence in us or our financial statements and could harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading, ineligibility for listing on the Nasdaq Global Market or other Nasdaq or national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. 24 Future sales of shares of our common stock by our stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price prevailing from time to time. As of March 11, 2008, we had outstanding 29,471,943 shares of common stock. An aggregate of 2,891,787 shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes or upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and an aggregate of 42,000 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options. Sales of shares of our common stock in the public market covered under an effective registration statement, or pursuant to Rule 144, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt securities to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the percentage equity interest of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of March 11, 2008, there were approximately 40,314,270 authorized and unissued shares of our common stock which have not been reserved and accordingly, are available for future issuance. Although we have not entered into any agreements as of this date to issue our unreserved shares of common stock, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination or to raise capital in the private or public markets. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in this offering; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may cause us to incur substantial expenditures and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contain specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, to the extent provided by Nevada law. We may also have or may create contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Our management owns a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests could differ from those of other stockholders. Our principal executive officers and directors, beneficially own approximately 46.45% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of any amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws, and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Their control may delay or prevent a change of control on terms favorable to our other stockholders and may adversely affect your voting and other stockholders rights. 25 Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and provisions of Nevada law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so could be in our stockholders’ best interest. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be in the best interest of our stockholders. It could be difficult for a potential bidder to acquire us because our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions may limit stockholders’ ability to approve a transaction that stockholders may think is in their best interests. These provisions include a requirement that certain procedures must be followed before matters can be proposed for consideration at meetings of our stockholders. Provisions of Nevada’s business combinations statute also restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. We have elected not to be governed by these provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation. However, this election may not be effective unless we meet certain conditions under the Nevada statute. Capital outflow policies in the PRC may hamper our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. The PRC has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although our management believes that we will be in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders outside of the PRC. In addition, under current Chinese law, we must retain a reserve equal to 10 percent of net income after taxes, not to exceed 50 percent of registered capital. Accordingly, this reserve will not be available to be distributed as dividends to our shareholders. We presently do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. Item 