Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. Risks Associated with Our Company If we are unable to complete the business combination with XLNT, we will not have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination and will be required to liquidate. We must complete our business combination by March 22, 2008. Accordingly, if we are unable to complete the business combination with XLNT, it is unlikely that we will have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination. We will therefore be forced to liquidate our assets. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution could be less than the purchase price per share that purchasers paid for our securities because of the expenses of the initial public offering and our general and administrative expenses. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders could be less than their purchase price per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. The proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders. There can be no assurance that the per-share liquidation price including interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account), will not be less than the purchase price per share that purchasers paid for our securities due to claims of creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our Chairman and executive officers will be personally liable under certain circumstances (for example, if a vendor or a prospective target business does not waive any rights or claims to the trust account) to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that our Chairman and executive officers will be able to satisfy those obligations. 8 Upon consummation of our business combination with XLNT, there will be a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the future that may increase the volume of common stock available for sale in the open market and may cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. The consideration to be issued in the merger with XLNT will include shares of our common stock and options and to purchase shares of our common stock. Except for a portion of the shares that will be held by certain affiliates of XLNT and are subject to a lock-up period, the shares will be freely saleable immediately after the consummation of the merger. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. All of our officers and directors own stock in our Company, but have waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation with respect to their shares purchased prior to our initial public offering. Additionally, some of our officers and directors own warrants to purchase additional shares of our common stock. The shares and warrants owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate the business combination with XLNT. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in accepting any changes or waiving any terms with respect to our business combination with XLNT. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in agreeing to such changes or waivers may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether such changes or waivers are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Changes in the market price of our common stock may increase the our liability and expense related to our derivative instruments. The accounting for derivative instruments and the assumptions used to value them have materially affected our financial statements and are expected to do so in the future. Factors that would have an effect on the fair value of derivative instruments and related derivative expense or income include, but are not limited to, the price of our common stock and risk free interest rates. For example, if the price of our common stock increases, generally the fair value of the derivative instrument liabilities will increase and this will result in a corresponding increase in the derivative instrument expense recorded in our statement of operations. Alternatively, if the price of our common stock decreases, it generally will cause the fair value of the derivative instrument liabilities to decrease and this will result in a corresponding increase in derivative instrument income to be recorded in our statement of operations. The above changes could be mitigated by the change in the remaining term of the instruments over time and possible principal payments made during the life of the instruments. We currently do not pay dividends and as such, the payment of dividends would not have an impact on the fair value of the derivative instrument liabilities. Our outstanding warrants and options may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We currently have 8,270,833 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of issued and outstanding warrants, the option to purchase 312,500 units that we granted to the representatives of the underwriters in the initial public offering (including the warrants underlying the option), and the Founding Director Warrants purchased in the private placement concurrently with our initial public offering. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business because such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, reduce the ownership the stockholders would have had excluding the shares issued from the exercise of warrants and options, and may reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and options may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of the sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and options are exercised, stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings. 9 We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust fund and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of the initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. See “Item 1 - Business - Liquidation if no business combination.” You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that had not been identified as of the date of the initial public offering, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 received from the successful consummation of the initial public offering and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of the initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419 of the Securities Act of 1933. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable upon the initial public offering and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering are sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot currently ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the initial public offering prove to be insufficient, because of the size of the business combination, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we may be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds available under our limited recourse revolving line of credit to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would be forced to liquidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 10 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be adversely affected. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, and it is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the original conversion price of $7.64 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our Chairman and executive officers will be personally liable under certain circumstances (for example, if a vendor or a prospective target business does not waive any rights or claims to the trust account) to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that our Chairman and executive officers will be able to satisfy those obligations. We intend to issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination with XLNT, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 7,979,167 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. In connection with the proposed business combination with XLNT, we intend to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to complete a business combination with XLNT. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. It is likely that some of our current officers and directors will resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect several of our management and other key personnel, particularly our chairman of the board and chief financial officer, to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same as part of any such combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues, which may adversely affect our operations. 11 Although we closely scrutinized the management of the target business with whom we entered into an agreement, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target business’ management will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that the future management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. Furthermore, the future role of our officers and directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same in connection with any such combination. Any such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. While it is possible that one or more of our directors will remain associated in some capacity with us following a business combination, it is unlikely that any of them will devote their full efforts to our affairs subsequent to a business combination. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our officers and directors will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that additional managers will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. If management were to negotiate to be retained by the company post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. Our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate mutually agreeable employment terms as part of any such combination, which terms would be disclosed to stockholders in any proxy statement relating to such transaction. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business, and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. The Amended and Restated Merger Agreement with XLNT currently provides that Mr. Burleson will remain as Chairman of the Board. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers is engaged in several other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a discussion of potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see “Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Certain of our officers and directors are currently affiliated with XLNT and thus may have conflicting fiduciary duties. Certain of our officers and directors are currently involved with XLNT. Conflicts of interest may have arisen and could arise in the future in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination with XLNT. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see “Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 12 Certain of our officers and directors could become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by XLNT and accordingly may have conflicting fiduciary duties in determining to which entity a business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors could become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by XLNT and accordingly may have conflicting fiduciary duties in determining to which entity a business opportunity should be presented. If such affiliations arise, such officers and directors may have conflicting fiduciary obligations with regard to presenting certain potential business opportunities to those entities that may be of interest to us. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Accordingly, such officers and directors may become subject to conflicts of interest regarding us and other business ventures in which they may be involved, which conflicts may have an adverse effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see “Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our directors own shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our directors own shares of common stock in our Company that were issued prior to our initial public offering but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to these shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to complete a business combination. Certain of our directors and initial stockholders have also purchased $550,000 of warrants directly from us in a private placement transaction concurrently with the closing of our initial public offering at a purchase price of $1.20 per warrant. Additionally, designees of our President and Secretary, Joel Kanter, purchased in the open market a total of 379,528 of our warrants (the “Market Purchase Warrants”). These purchases of Market Purchase Warrants if subsequently exercised would result in management owning more than a 20% interest in our Company. The purchase of founding director warrants and Market Purchase Warrants, together with any other acquisitions of our shares (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our initial stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The Market Purchase Warrants will not be sold until the consummation of a business combination; however, they may be transferable in certain limited circumstances, such as by will in the event of death, but the transferees receiving such Market Purchase Warrants will be subject to the same sale restrictions imposed on Mr. Kanter and/or his designees. The shares and warrants owned by our seven directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of these directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting XLNT as a suitable target business may have resulted in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of the business combination with XLNT are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the portion of net proceeds of the offering that is not placed in the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated, and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our initial stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the portion of net proceeds of the offering that is not placed in the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated. The financial interest of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; 13 · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of our net assets. Although as of the date of this Form 10-K we have not engaged or retained, had any discussions with, or entered into any agreements with, any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition of target businesses simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we complete the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, if the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds available under the limited recourse revolving line of credit to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account or available under the limited recourse line of credit to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would be forced to liquidate, resulting in a loss of a portion of your investment. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. Other than a commitment to provide additional working capital of up to $750,000 in the form of a limited recourse revolving line of credit agreement, none of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 14 Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Certain of our directors and initial stockholders have also purchased $550,000 of warrants directly from us concurrently with the closing of our initial public offering at a price per warrant of $1.20. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of a warrant purchase agreement with the underwriters, the designees of our President and Secretary, Joel Kanter, purchased in the open market a total of 379,528 of our warrants. These purchases of Market Purchase Warrants may result in management having greater than a 20% interest in our Company if these warrants are subsequently exercised. The purchase of Founding Director Warrants by directors and certain of our initial stockholders and Market Purchase Warrants by designees of Joel Kanter, together with any other acquisitions of our shares (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow the initial stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The Market Purchase Warrants cannot be sold until after consummation of a business combination; however, the purchasers may be able to transfer such Market Purchase Warrants in certain limited circumstances such as by will in the event of their death, but the transferees receiving such warrants will be subject to the same sale restrictions imposed on Mr. Kanter’s designees. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing units in our initial public offering or in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that our initial stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We currently have outstanding 7,958,333 warrants to purchase 7,958,333 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 15 If our initial stockholders and purchasers of the Founding Director Warrants exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to require us to register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, shall occur in two equal increments: (i) 781,250 shares on the expiration of three years from the date of the initial public offering; and (ii) 781,250 shares on our having completed an initial business combination and the last sale price of our common stock thereafter equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30 trading day period beginning after we complete our initial business combination. In addition, the holders of the Founding Director Warrants can demand that we register those warrants and the underlying shares of common stock at any time after the Founding Director Warrants become exercisable by their terms. The holders of the Founding Director Warrants are also entitled to require us to register the resale of shares of common stock underlying the Founding Director Warrants when such warrants become exercisable by their terms. If our initial stockholders and the purchasers of the Founding Director Warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 1,562,500 shares of common stock and 458,333 warrants and/or up to 458,333 shares of common stock issued upon the exercise of the warrants that will be eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the shares placed in escrow and subject to the completion of a business combination and the attainment of a sales price equal to or greater than $11.50 as discussed above may be considered contingent shares because the completion of a business combination and the attainment of such price per share cannot be assured. Because the shares are to be released to the initial stockholders (all of whom are officers and/or directors or are a related party to an officer and director) upon meeting these performance and market conditions, we may be required to recognize a charge based on the fair value of the shares at the time the shares are released from the escrow. (The amount of such charge could be equal to the number of shares times the market value at such date. Based on the target price of $11.50, such charge would be approximately $8,984,000. The current value of the shares to be held in escrow and conditioned only by the passage of time, is approximately $5,313,000, based on the unit offering price of $8.00 per unit less the warrant private placement price of $1.20 per warrant.) If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not budgeted. 16 Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock, and no salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers and directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. We believe that four members of our board of directors are “independent” as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not any directors are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. Acquisitions that we may undertake would involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result. It is possible that, following our initial acquisition, our strategy will include expanding our operations and other capabilities through acquisitions of businesses and assets. Acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, such as: · uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; · the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; · the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; · problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; and · unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with these acquisition candidates. In the event we acquire a business that is unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if its internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business and our stock price could suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal controls, including an evaluation of any target businesses acquired by a company. In the event the internal controls over financial reporting of a target business cannot satisfy the regulatory requirements relating to internal controls or if these internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, we may not be able to complete a business combination with the target business without substantial cost or significant risks to our Company or our management may be unable to certify as to the effectiveness of the internal controls and our auditor may be unable to publicly attest to this certification following the completion of a business combination. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors’ attestation of that assessment may require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources or may prevent a business combination with certain target businesses. If we fail to timely complete our evaluation, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of the internal controls of our Company or the acquired business or if our auditors cannot attest to management’s certification, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. 17 XLNT’s inability to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our Amended and Restated Merger Agreement with XLNT provides that XLNT as part of the merger consideration will agree to retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. These third-party claims and other liabilities include, without limitation, premium payments to funds created under applicable Federal laws, costs associated with various litigation matters, and certain environmental liabilities. If XLNT fails to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the Amended and Restated Merger Agreement, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, certain obligations of XLNT to indemnify us will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit, or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. If the directors and officers who committed to make loans to us fail to do so, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our Company. Certain of our directors and stockholders have entered into a limited recourse revolving line of credit agreement with us to provide us with up to $750,000 available at any time of working capital to operate our Company prior to the consummation of a business combination. There can be no assurance that these directors and stockholders will have the financial resources available to meet their commitments to provide the additional working capital pursuant to the terms of the limited recourse revolving line of credit as the obligations thereunder come due. The funds we receive from our directors and stockholders will not be held in trust and will only be used for the payment of expenses relating to the due diligence of potential target businesses, deposits, down payments or funding of “no-shop” provisions in connection with a particular business combination, legal and other professional fees and expenses, for working capital and for general corporate purposes. If any of the directors and stockholders who committed to provide the additional working capital to us fail to do so, such failure could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our Company, and as a result, we may not be able to consummate a business combination. Risks Associated with XLNT and the Veterinary Healthcare Industry If we successfully consummate a business combination with XLNT, about which no assurances can be given, our proposed business will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: XLNT has a limited operating history and may incur losses in the foreseeable future. XLNT was organized in 2004 and does not have a significant operating history. XLNT acquired its first two veterinary hospitals in September 2004 and acquired additional veterinary hospitals throughout 2005, 2006 and in the first quarter of 2007. XLNT has incurred losses to date. XLNT is currently developing its operational infrastructure and faces additional risks similar to those of other businesses with limited operating history. XLNT’s prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays, problems and difficulties frequently encountered in the establishment of a new business. Operating results may also vary depending on a number of factors, many of which are outside XLNT’s control, including: · changes in XLNT’s pricing policies or those of its competitors; · the hiring and retention of key personnel; · fluctuation in costs related to acquisitions of businesses; · wage and cost pressures; 18 · availability of facilities that are suitable for acquisition; · viability of the hub and spoke model; · hiring and retention of veterinarians; · increased competition and pricing pressure; and · seasonal and general economic factors. XLNT may be unable to successfully execute and manage its growth strategy. XLNT’s success depends in part on its ability to build a position as a leading regional animal health care services company through internal growth initiatives and a disciplined acquisition program of established veterinary hospitals. XLNT may be unable to successfully execute its growth and acquisition strategy, and as a result, its business may be materially harmed. XLNT intends, as part of its growth strategy, to acquire additional veterinary hospitals. There are no assurances that such acquisitions will in fact occur or that they will occur on the terms and conditions currently contemplated. XLNT may not be able to attract or compete successfully for prospective acquisition candidates or achieve sufficient “cluster” hospitals in any market it may target in order to achieve targeted efficiencies. In addition, acquisitions may take longer than anticipated or may not be cost effective. Results of operations may be materially adversely affected if XLNT is unable to manage its growth effectively, which may increase costs of operations and hinder XLNT’s ability to execute its business strategy. XLNT’s internal revenue growth from new services and pet pharmaceuticals as well as its expected cost savings may not develop as anticipated, and reduction in its expected rate of internal growth may cause XLNT’s revenue and margins to decrease from management’s expectations. Expected growth may place a significant strain on management and operational systems and resources. If XLNT’s business grows as expected, XLNT will need to improve and enhance its overall financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and expand, train and manage its workforce. XLNT will also need to increase the capacity of current systems to meet additional demands. XLNT may have difficulties integrating acquired businesses. XLNT may not be able to achieve anticipated operational cost synergies or effectively integrate individual acquired veterinary hospitals and related practices with XLNT. Difficulties with such integration may, among other things, impose substantial cost and delay. The process of integrating the operations of an acquired business, including its personnel, into XLNT could cause interruptions to XLNT’s business and may require a disproportionate amount of the time and attention of XLNT’s management. In addition, any interruption or deterioration in service resulting from an acquisition may result in a customer’s decision to stop using such hospital. For these reasons, XLNT may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, either at all or in a timely manner. The significant competition in the animal heath care services industry could cause XLNT to reduce prices or lose market share. The animal health care services industry is highly competitive. XLNT’s primary competitors in most markets are individual practitioners or small, regional, multi-clinic practices. In addition, regional pet care companies and some national companies with greater financial resources, including super-stores, may develop multi-regional networks of veterinary hospitals in markets in which XLNT operates or intends to operate. To compete successfully, XLNT may be required to reduce prices, increase operating costs or take other measures that could have an adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, margins and cash flow. This competition could impair XLNT’s ability to attract and retain business. In addition, XLNT’s business may be adversely affected by an increase in competition from online pet pharmacy companies, such as PetCareRx and PetMeds. The sale of pet medication by online providers is often at lower prices than at a veterinarian’s office. Most pet owners buy their pet’s medication directly from the veterinarian, offering the convenience of purchasing the animal’s medication at the time of visit. However, recently there has been an increase in advertising for discount pet medicines, which can impact the amount of point-of-care sales for some veterinarians. The online suppliers may affect the sales of chronic condition medications. 19 Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The results of operations of XLNT will depend, in part, on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified directors, executive officers and other employees. While certain of XLNT’s executive officers will enter into employment agreements with XLNT, there can be no assurance that XLNT will be able to continue to attract and retain highly qualified persons for such positions. The loss of key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on XLNT. XLNT may experience difficulties recruiting or retaining skilled veterinary professionals. Key veterinarians at hospitals acquired by XLNT may elect to not continue employment with XLNT. In addition, XLNT may not be able to recruit or retain adequate numbers of veterinarians or pet care professionals necessary to support XLNT’s business plan due to periodic shortages, which could disrupt its business. Skilled veterinarians are in shortage from time to time in particular regional markets. During these shortages, XLNT may be unable to hire enough qualified veterinarians to adequately staff its veterinary hospitals in these regions, in which event XLNT may lose market share and its revenues and profitability may decline. XLNT requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt and expand our business as planned. XLNT’s operations, including acquiring additional veterinary hospitals and consolidating such hospitals, will consume substantial amounts of capital. XLNT expects capital and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as it pursues its acquisition program. If XLNT seeks outside financing, no assurance can be given that additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, such financing will be obtained on terms acceptable to XLNT. XLNT’s inability to obtain sufficient funds from operations and external sources would hurt XLNT’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, which all may be materially adversely affected. If XLNT’s subsidiaries cannot make distributions or dividends to XLNT, XLNT will not have funds to make payments to service its current debt or future debt. XLNT depends primarily on the payment of dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, which may be limited by their earnings, available cash and outstanding liabilities. XLNT is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries, and XLNT does not have significant operations of its own. If XLNT’s subsidiaries incur losses and are unable to pay dividends to XLNT, it may not have funds with which to pay amounts under its various debt instruments or corporate overhead. If XLNT issues mezzanine debt, that debt may have priority over certain of the current debt instruments, which could increase the risk of default on those current debt instruments. Incurring substantial amounts of debt could adversely affect our business. Leverage. XLNT may utilize a leveraged capital structure to, among other things, fund its acquisition program, and XLNT has issued promissory notes and other forms of debt in connection with past acquisitions and may likely do so in the future, including the possibility of issuing mezzanine debt. As a result, XLNT is and in the future may be subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including, (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, (ii) the risk that existing debt (which will not have been fully amortized at maturity) will not be able to be refinanced or that the terms of such refinancings will not be as favorable to XLNT, and (iii) the risk that necessary capital expenditures will not be able to be financed on favorable terms or at all. Risk of Rising Interest Rates. XLNT may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance its debt at higher rates. By its very nature, a variable interest rate will move up or down based on changes in the economy and other factors, all of which are beyond the control of XLNT. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such rates will not rise significantly and, consequently, that XLNT would be required to pay more interest than is anticipated. A significant increase in market interest rates could jeopardize XLNT’s ability to pay required debt service on loans and could possibly result in a default under the loan and/or foreclosure. 20 Covenants. Various credit facilities or other debt obligations may require XLNT to comply with a number of financial and other covenants on an ongoing basis. Failure to comply with such covenants may limit XLNT’s ability to borrow funds or may cause a default under its then-existing indebtedness. Limitations on Debt. The Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of XLNT does not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness XLNT may incur. Accordingly, XLNT could become highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could increase the risk of default on XLNT’s indebtedness. XLNT’s liquidity may not be sufficient to pay its expenses. XLNT intends to maintain sufficient liquidity to pay fixed expenses, such as rent and personnel costs. However, it is possible in certain scenarios (such as a significant decrease in revenue) that XLNT’s liquidity will not be adequate to pay its fixed costs. XLNT is subject to local market risks as a result of the geographic concentration of its operations. XLNT’s initial operations are in the California market, with possible further development in other markets, all of which may be subject to risks relating to the local economy (such as, among other things, earthquake risks). A economic downturn could materially adversely affect XLNT’s business. XLNT’s business may be materially adversely affected by negative trends in the general economy that reduce consumer spending. XLNT’s business depends on the ability and willingness of animal owners to pay for its services. This dependence could make XLNT more vulnerable to any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income as compared to companies in other industries that are less reliant on consumer spending, such as the human health care industry, in which a large portion of payments are made by insurance programs. Any failure in our information technology systems could adversely affect XLNT’s operations. Any failure in XLNT’s information technology systems could significantly increase costs, reduce XLNT’s capacity to provide services and related items and otherwise disrupt XLNT’s operations. XLNT could lose customers and revenue as a result of a system failure. XLNT’s computer systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, electricity brownouts or blackouts, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of XLNT’s servers may be potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions XLNT intends to take, unanticipated problems affecting its systems could cause interruptions in its information technology systems. Insurance policies may not adequately compensate XLNT for any losses that may occur due to any failures in such systems. Governmental regulation could adversely affect XLNT’s business. XLNT and its veterinary hospital and veterinary care practitioners are subject to various local, state and federal regulations and zoning and other requirements. If XLNT fails to comply with governmental regulations applicable to its business, various governmental agencies may impose fines, institute litigation or preclude us from operating in certain states. The laws of many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, veterinary medical care. These laws vary from state to state and are enforced by the courts and by regulatory authorities with broad discretion. XLNT plans to operate primarily in states with manageable regulatory issues, however, XLNT may experience difficulty expanding its operations into other states with differing laws related to veterinary medical care, and existing state regulations may change. Given varying and uncertain interpretations of the veterinary laws of each state, XLNT may not be in compliance with restrictions on the corporate practice of veterinary medicine in all states. A determination that XLNT is in violation of applicable restrictions on the practice of veterinary medicine in any state in which it operates could have a material adverse effect on XLNT, particularly if it is unable to restructure its operations to comply with the requirements of that state. All of the states in which XLNT will operate impose various registration requirements. To fulfill these requirements, XLNT will register each of its facilities with appropriate governmental agencies and, where required, will appoint a licensed veterinarian to act on behalf of each facility. All veterinary doctors practicing in its hospitals are required to maintain valid state licenses to practice. 21 The possible implementation of pet insurance could adversely affect XLNT’s business. The possible implementation of pet insurance and XLNT’s operation under such insurance could impose additional fees and costs upon XLNT and reduce the revenue from services and related items. If XLNT does not accept such insurance or chooses not to participate in pet insurance programs, it could place it in a competitive disadvantage. Acceptance of pet insurance could result in a reduction in fees or the possible imposition of caps for services. The involvement of insurance companies could also increase various administrative requirements related to the submission and processing of claims resulting in a delay in payments or disputes regarding the terms and amounts of available coverage. A decrease in the frequency of animal vaccinations could adversely affect our business. In the summer of 2003, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated a publication on animal vaccinations, which called for less frequent canine revaccinations. The study concluded that some vaccinations remain effective for periods of three to five years, suggesting that veterinarians should decrease the frequency of vaccinations. This could adversely affect XLNT’s results of operations. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. Under various laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real estate may be required to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances such as asbestos, lead or petroleum, and may be held strictly liable for failure to comply with such laws. Accordingly, liability may be imposed whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect XLNT’s ability to sell or rent a veterinary hospital or to borrow using such veterinary hospital as collateral. In addition, compliance costs incurred in abating these conditions and any related litigation may be substantial. XLNT intends to obtain insurance with respect to environmental liabilities where deemed appropriate by the Board of XLNT. XLNT, however, cannot guarantee that insurance coverage will be available at all times or in sufficient amounts to address these risks or that any coverage obtained will protect fully against future liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that remain unresolved. Item 