D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our common shares. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for distributions or the trading price of our common shares. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from our operations to enable us to pay dividends on our shares following the payment of fees and expenses and the establishment of any reserves. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends. We may not, however, have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay dividends. The amount of dividends we can pay depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; 6 Table of Contents • the level of our operating costs; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our containerships; • delays in the delivery of new vessels and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those ships; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; and • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions. The amount of cash we have available for dividends on our common shares will not depend solely on our profitability. The actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends also will depend on many factors including the following: • changes in our operating cash flow, capital expenditure requirements, working capital requirements and other cash needs; • the charter rates on new vessels and those obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; • restrictions under our credit facility and, in any future debt agreements; • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors; and • restrictions under Marshall Islands law. In addition, before we can determine the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, we must pay fees to our Manager for the technical management of our vessels, must pay a monthly administrative services fee not to exceed $6,000 per month and must reimburse our Manager for all reasonable costs in providing us with administrative and strategic services. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our credit facility will also restrict our declaration and payment of dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or if the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default. In addition, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend and any such dividend may be discontinued at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, if our quarterly cash dividend exceeds $0.485 per common and subordinated share, our Manager will share in incremental dividends through the incentive shares based upon specified sharing ratios, which will reduce the cash available for dividends on our common and subordinated shares. As a result of these and the other factors mentioned above, we may pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. Over the long-term, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to preserve the operating capacity of our fleet, which could result in a reduction or elimination of our ability to pay dividends. We must make substantial capital expenditures over the long-term to preserve our capital base. If we do not retain funds in our business in amounts necessary to preserve our capital base, over the long-term, we will not be 7 Table of Contents able to continue to refinance our indebtedness or maintain our dividends. We will likely need at some time in the future to retain funds, on an annual basis, in addition to such amount to provide reasonable assurance of maintaining our capital base over the long-term. There are a number of factors that will not be determinable for a number of years, but that will enter into our board of directors’ future decisions regarding the amount of funds to be retained in our business to preserve our capital base. For a description of these factors, please read “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Results of Operations—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Ongoing Capital Expenditures and Dividends.” Unless we are successful in making accretive acquisitions with outside sources of financing, which add a material amount to our cash available for retention in our business or unless our board of directors concludes that we will likely be able to recharter our fleet when our current charters expire at rates higher than the rates in our current charters, our board of directors will likely determine at some future date to reduce, or possibly eliminate, our dividend in order to be able to have reasonable assurance that it is retaining the funds necessary to preserve our capital base. When we refer to accretive acquisitions, we mean acquisitions that will increase our distributable cash flow per share. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to complete the acquisition of our contracted fleet and to expand the size of our fleet, which may cause our ability to pay dividends to be diminished, our financial leverage to increase or our shareholders to be diluted. In order to complete the acquisition of our contracted fleet, we have agreed to purchase an additional eight containerships, incrementally over approximately the next 18 months, at an aggregate cost of $573.3 million from the VesselCos. Our obligation to purchase the additional eight vessels is not conditional upon our ability to obtain financing for such purchase. We have the option to issue common shares in payment of up to $100.0 million of the purchase price for the last four of the additional eight containerships. Such common shares would be valued at a net price equal to 95% of our initial public offering price. In addition, we intend to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet beyond our initial 23 vessels. We have entered into a purchase agreement with Conti to acquire two 3500 TEU vessels over the next 17 months. We have also entered into a ship building contract for four 2500 TEU vessels with Jiangsu. The vessels will be constructed for us over the next 35 months. For a description of these agreements, please read “