Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make in this filing, and other written or oral statements made by or on our behalf, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Words or phrases such as “should result,” “are expected to,” “we anticipate,” “we estimate,” “we project,” “we believe,” or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties 5 Table of Contents that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. We believe that these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Such statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise. The following risk factors, as well as the risks detailed in the “Business” section and others that we may add from time to time, are some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business The United States economic crisis could adversely affect our business and financial results. Many sectors of the economy have been adversely impacted from the global economic recession. As a business selling premium products that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we face a challenging environment because our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic or average value per transaction will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins and profitability. The availability and price of high quality Arabica coffee beans could impact our profitability and growth of our business. We source our green coffee beans from direct coffee farmer relationships utilizing brokers. If we are not able to source sufficient quantities of green coffee beans to meet our demands for growth and expand, then our business could be negatively impacted. Also, the prices we pay for coffee beans are subject to movements in the commodity market for coffee. The price can fluctuate depending on such things as weather patterns in coffee-producing countries, economic and political conditions affecting coffee-producing countries, foreign currency fluctuations, coffee-producing countries’ export quotas, commodity market investor activity and general economic conditions. Should the price for coffee beans increase and we are not able to adjust our pricing and cost structure accordingly, our margins and profitability will decrease. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting, warehousing and distribution facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one roasting, warehousing and distribution facility supporting our supply chain activities. A significant interruption impacting this supply chain facility, whether as a result of a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. A significant disruption in service from our support center facility would negatively impact sales in all business segments. We may not be able to renew leases or control rent increases at our retail locations or obtain leases for new coffeehouses. Our coffeehouses are all leased. At the end of the term of the lease, we may be forced to find a new location to lease or close the coffeehouse. Any of these events could adversely affect our profitability. We compete with numerous other retailers and restaurants for coffeehouse sites in the highly competitive market for retail real estate. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases, or renew existing ones, on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our net sales and brand-building initiatives. We are susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in Minnesota and the Upper Midwest. As of January 3, 2010, 211, or 51%, of our coffeehouses were located in Minnesota. An additional 76, or 18%, were located in the states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. Our Minnesota coffeehouses accounted for approximately half of our company-operated coffeehouse net sales during the year ended January 3, 2010. Our Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin company-operated coffeehouses accounted for approximately 72% of our coffeehouse net sales during the year ended January 3, 2010. As a result, any adverse trends and economic conditions in these states have a disproportionate adverse impact on 6 Table of Contents our overall results. In addition, given our geographic concentration in these states, negative publicity in the region regarding any of our coffeehouses could have a material effect on our business and operations throughout the region, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, new or revised laws or regulations, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or disruptions in the supply of food products. Complaints or claims by current, former or prospective employees could adversely affect us. We are subject to a variety of regulations which govern such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. A material increase in the minimum wage and other statutory benefits could adversely affect our operating results. We have been, and in the future may be, the subject of complaints or litigation from current, former or prospective employees from time to time. These complaints or litigation involving current, former or prospective employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and might potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more fiscal periods. Risks Related to Our Structure Arcapita has substantial control over us, and could limit other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval and may support corporate actions that conflict with other shareholders’ interests. Our largest shareholder is an affiliate of Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c), a global investment group founded in 1997 with offices in Atlanta, London and Bahrain. We refer to Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c) and its affiliates collectively as either Arcapita or our majority shareholder in the Form 10-K. Arcapita beneficially owns 11,672,245 shares, or approximately 58.9%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of January 3, 2010. Arcapita’s ownership of shares of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage a potential acquirer from obtaining control of us, even if the acquisition or merger would be in the best interest of our shareholders, or could otherwise affect our business because of our compliance with Shari’ah principles as described below. This could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Arcapita is also able to control the election of directors to our board. Two of the eight members of our board of directors are representatives of Arcapita. Our compliance with Shari’ah principles may make it difficult for us to obtain financing and may limit the products we sell. Arcapita operates its business and makes its investments in a manner consistent with the body of Islamic principles known as Shari’ah. Consequently, we operate our business in a manner that is consistent with Shari’ah principles and will continue to do so for so long as Arcapita is a controlling shareholder. Shari’ah principles regarding the lending and borrowing of money require application of qualitative and quantitative standards. A Shari’ah-compliant company is prohibited from engaging in derivative hedging transactions such as interest rate swaps or futures, forward options or other instruments designed to hedge against changes in interest rates or the price of commodities we purchase. Also, a Shari’ah compliant company is prohibited from dealing in the areas of alcohol, gambling, pornography, pork and pork-related products. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Minnesota law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control that could be beneficial to our shareholders, which could depress the market price of shares of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Minnesota corporate law contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us or our management that could be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition 7 Table of Contents proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of those shares, which would be senior to our common stock, without prior shareholder approval; • establish advance notice requirements for nominating directors and proposing matters to be voted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause; • limit the right of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • impose procedural and other requirements that could make it difficult for shareholders to effect some corporate actions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 