Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Properties and Operations The Company’s real estate investments are concentrated in medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, making the Company more vulnerable economically than if the Company’s investments were diversified. As a REIT, the Company invests primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, the Company selectively owns, develops, redevelops, acquires and manages medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities. The Company is subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of the Company’s business strategy to invest primarily in medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities. A downturn in the medical office building industry or in the commercial real estate industry generally, could significantly adversely affect the value of the Company’s properties. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect the Company’s tenants’ ability to make rent payments to the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if the Company held a diverse portfolio of investments outside of real estate or outside of medical office buildings and healthcare related properties. 10 The Company depends on significant tenants. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s five largest tenants represented $14.9 million, or 20.4%, of the annualized rent generated by the Company’s properties. The Company’s five largest tenants based on annualized rents are Carolinas HealthCare System, Palmetto Health Alliance, Bon Secours St. Francis Hospital, University Hospital (Augusta, GA), and Gaston Memorial Hospital. The Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses, which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to make timely rental payments or their default under their leases. In the event of any tenant default, the Company may experience delays in enforcing the Company’s rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting the Company’s investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company’s tenants under the Company’s leases could seriously harm the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company will receive a substantial amount of the Company’s income as rent payments under leases of space in the Company’s properties. The Company has no control over the success or failure of the Company’s tenants’ businesses and, at any time, any of the Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, the Company’s tenants may delay lease commencement or renewal, fail to make rent payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, lessee failures to make rent payments when due, or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and, particularly in the case of a large tenant, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders, and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of the Company’s leases, the Company may be forced to modify lease terms in ways that are unfavorable to the Company. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease or to extend a lease upon expiration of its term could require the Company to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, operate the property, or sell the property. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to lease the property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all. The Company may not be able to find another tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses, successfully operate the property, or sell the property on terms that are favorable to the Company. If any lease expires or is terminated, the Company will be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that vacant space until it is re-let. If the Company experiences high levels of vacant space, the Company’s operating expenses may increase significantly. Any significant increase in the Company’s operating costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of the Company’s tenants could bar all efforts by the Company to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that lessee or seize its property, unless the Company receives an order permitting the Company to do so from the bankruptcy court, which the Company may be unable to obtain. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant assumes the lease while in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to the Company in full. However, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that the Company may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims the Company holds, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders, and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause the Company to incur substantial legal and other costs. 11 The global financial crisis, and other events or circumstances beyond the control of the Company, may adversely affect the Company’s industry, business, results of operations, contractual commitments, and access to capital. What began initially as a “subprime” mortgage crisis has turned into an extraordinary U.S. and worldwide structural economic and financial crisis coupled with the rapid decline of the consumer economy. Recently, significant concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a steep economic decline and fears of a deep and prolonged recession. Further, severe financial and structural strains on the banking and financial systems have led to significant lack of trust and confidence in the global credit and financial system. Consumers and money managers have liquidated equity investments and consumers and banks have held cash and other lower risk investments, resulting in significant and, in some cases, catastrophic declines in the equity capitalization of companies and unusual failures of financial institutions. Additionally, financial systems throughout the world are undergoing severe structural changes with banks much less willing to lend substantial amounts to other banks and borrowers. This extraordinary level of illiquidity has caused a significant decline in available credit from financial institutions and other lenders and the unprecedented declines in the market values of United States and foreign stock exchanges has led to significantly higher cost of debt and equity capital. The United States and foreign governments have taken extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the consumer driven economy. These extraordinary actions, including the merger of large financial institutions and significant investment in and control by government bodies, has so far resulted in limited or no relief to the credit markets, and there is no assurance that their actions will ultimately be successful. Additionally, extraordinary government controls have been attempted, including a temporary ban of “short sales” on certain publicly traded stocks and guarantees of money market funds, which have also resulted in limited relief, if any, to the credit markets. The resulting and ongoing lack of available credit, lack of lending between financial institutions and other key lending sources (such as life insurance companies and pension funds), lack of lending to borrowers and further failures and consolidation of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s tenants, key vendors and contractors, financial condition, results of operations, ability to fund development and redevelopment activities, ability to refinance debt and other capital needs and access to capital. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which the Company does business could negatively affect the Company’s occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operating results are dependent upon its ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in the Company’s portfolio. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which the Company operates may lower the Company’s occupancy levels and limit the Company’s ability to increase rents or require the Company to offer rental discounts. The following factors are primary among those which may adversely affect the operating performance of the Company’s properties: ● periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rental rates or an increase in tenant defaults; ● the national economic climate in which the Company operates, which may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, a reduction in the availability of debt or equity financing, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics; ● local or regional real estate market conditions such as the oversupply of medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities or a reduction in demand for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities in a particular area; ● negative perceptions by prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the Company’s properties and the neighborhoods in which they are located; ● earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and changes in the tax, real estate and zoning laws. 12 The failure of the Company’s properties to generate revenues sufficient to meet the Company’s cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more a significant period of time. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets may also limit the Company’s access to capital from financial institutions on attractive terms, or at all, and its ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities could be adversely affected by causes beyond the control of the Company through ongoing extraordinary disruptions in the global economy and financial systems or other events. The majority of the Company’s consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties are located in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina, and changes in these markets may materially adversely affect the Company. The Company’s consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties located in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina, provide approximately 11.3%, 23.9% and 28.4%, respectively, of the Company’s total annualized rent as of December 31, 2008. As a result of the geographic concentration of properties in these markets, the Company is particularly exposed to downturns in these local economies or other changes in local real estate market conditions. In the event of negative economic changes in these markets, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s investments in development and redevelopment projects may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm the Company’s operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions. A key component of the Company’s growth strategy is exploring new-asset development and redevelopment opportunities through strategic joint ventures. To the extent that the Company engages in these development and redevelopment activities, they will be subject to the following risks normally associated with these projects: ● the Company may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on attractive terms or at all; ● the Company may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts; ● the Company may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; ● occupancy rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in the Company’s investment not being profitable; and start-up costs may be higher than anticipated. In deciding whether to develop or redevelop a particular property, the Company makes certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. The Company may underestimate the costs necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or the Company may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly acquired property as quickly as expected or at all. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these development or redevelopment projects and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 13 The Company may in the future develop medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities in geographic regions where the Company does not currently have a significant presence and where the Company does not possess the same level of familiarity, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to develop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance. The Company has relied, and in the future may rely, on the investments of the Company’s joint venture partners for the funding of the Company’s development and redevelopment projects. If the Company’s reputation in the healthcare real estate industry changes or the number of investors considering the Company as an attractive strategic partner is otherwise reduced, the Company’s ability to develop or redevelop properties could be affected, which would limit the Company’s growth. If the Company’s investments in development and redevelopment projects do not yield anticipated returns for any reason, including those set forth above, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. The Company may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede the Company’s growth and negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s ability to expand through acquisitions is a key component of its long-term growth strategy and requires the Company to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet its criteria and are compatible with its growth strategy. The Company may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet the Company’s acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions or investment opportunities will slow the Company’s growth, which could in turn adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company’s ability to acquire properties on attractive terms and successfully integrate and operate them may be constrained by the following significant risks: ● failure to finance an acquisition on attractive terms or at all; ● competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds; ● competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price for an acquisition property, which could reduce the Company’s profitability; ● unsatisfactory results of the Company’s due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions; ● the Company may spend more than the time and amounts budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and ● the Company may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons in respect of events transpiring or conditions existing before the Company acquired the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If any of these risks are realized, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. The Company may not be able to obtain additional capital to further its business objectives. The Company’s ability to develop, redevelop or acquire properties depends upon its ability to obtain capital. The real estate industry is currently experiencing a debt and equity capital market that is virtually frozen. This lack of capital is expected to cause a decrease in the level of new investment activity by publicly traded real estate companies. A prolonged period in which the Company cannot effectively access the public equity or debt markets may result in heavier reliance on alternative financing sources to undertake new investments. An inability to obtain equity or debt capital on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the Company from acquiring, financing and completing desirable investments, and which could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business. Also, the issuance of additional shares of capital stock or interests in subsidiaries to fund future operations could dilute the ownership of the Company’s then-existing stockholders. Even as liquidity returns to the market, debt and equity capital may be more expensive than in prior years. 14 If the Company is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures to attract new tenants, then the Company’s business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Virtually all of the Company’s leases are on a multiple year basis. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing 13.4% of the Company’s net rentable square feet will expire in 2009, 13.9% in 2010 and 9.3% in 2011. These expirations would account for 13.6%, 13.8% and 9.4% of the Company’s annualized rent, respectively. Approximately 75.6% of the square feet of the Company’s properties and 83.1% of the number of the Company’s properties are subject to certain restrictions. These restrictions include limits on the Company’s ability to re-let these properties to tenants not affiliated with the healthcare system that own the underlying property, rights of first offer on sales of the property and limits on the types of medical procedures that may be performed. In addition, lower than expected rental rates upon re-letting could impede the Company’s growth. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to re-let space on terms that are favorable to the Company or at all. Further, the Company may be required to make significant capital expenditures to renovate or reconfigure space to attract new tenants. If it is unable to promptly re-let its properties, if the rates upon such re-letting are significantly lower than expected or if the Company is required to undertake significant capital expenditures in connection with re-letting units, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Certain of the Company’s properties may not have efficient alternative uses. Some of the Company’s properties, such as the Company’s ambulatory surgery centers, are specialized medical facilities. If the Company or the Company’s tenants terminate the leases for these properties or the Company’s tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, the Company may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, the Company may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company faces competition for the acquisition of medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, which may impede the Company’s ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions. The Company competes with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate properties. The competition for healthcare real estate properties may significantly increase the price the Company must pay for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities or other assets the Company seeks to acquire and the Company’s competitors may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, the Company’s potential acquisition targets may find the Company’s competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition will result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, the Company may pay higher prices if the Company purchases single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If the Company pays higher prices for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities or other assets, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. 15 The Company may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties. The Company expects to make future acquisitions of medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities. If the Company acquires medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, the Company will be required to integrate them into the Company’s existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with the Company’s growth strategy than originally anticipated, may cause disruptions in the Company’s operations or may divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, their associated hospitals and the Company’s tenants may be unable to compete successfully. The Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, and their associated hospitals often face competition from nearby hospitals and other medical office buildings that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to the Company’s buildings. Similarly, the Company’s tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities. The Company’s tenants’ failure to compete successfully with these other practices could adversely affect their ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect the Company’s rental revenues. Further, from time to time and for reasons beyond the Company’s control, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. This could adversely affect the Company’s tenants’ ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect the Company’s rental revenues. The Company depends upon its tenants to operate their businesses in a manner which generates revenue sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to the Company, including their obligation to pay rent. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of the Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, their associated hospitals and the Company’s tenants to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may incur impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets. Because the Company has grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a significant portion of the Company’s assets. The Company performs an annual impairment review on its goodwill and other intangible assets in the fourth quarter of every fiscal year. In addition, the Company performs an impairment review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets may exceed the fair value of such assets. At some future date, the Company may determine that an impairment has occurred in the value of goodwill or other intangible assets. In such an event, the Company may be required to recognize an impairment loss which could have a material adverse affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of the Company insurance coverage could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and the Company’s cash flow. The Company maintains comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by the Company’s lenders), extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to the Company’s properties with policy specifications, limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose both the Company’s investment in and anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. If any such loss is insured, the Company may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to the Company’s insurer being obligated to reimburse the Company for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed the Company’s coverage for the loss. In addition, future lenders may require such insurance, and the Company’s failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. As a result, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. 16 Joint investments could be adversely affected by the Company’s lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer’s financial condition. The Company may co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, the Company may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that the Company’s partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, the Company’s partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with the Company’s business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither the Company nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, the Company may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. The Company’s mortgage agreements and ground leases contain certain provisions that may limit the Company’s ability to sell certain of the Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities. ● In order to assign or transfer the Company’s rights and obligations under certain of the Company’s mortgage agreements, the Company generally must: ● obtain the consent of the lender; ● pay a fee equal to a fixed percentage of the outstanding loan balance; and ● pay any costs incurred by the lender in connection with any such assignment or transfer. In addition, ground leases on certain of the Company’s properties contain restrictions on transfer such as limiting the assignment or subleasing of the facility only to practicing physicians or physicians in good standing with an affiliated hospital. These provisions of the Company’s mortgage agreements and ground leases may limit the Company’s ability to sell certain of the Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities which, in turn, could adversely impact the price realized from any such sale 26 of the Company’s consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties are subject to ground or air rights leases that expose the Company to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground or air rights leases The Company has 26 consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties that are subject to leasehold interests in the land or air underlying the buildings and the Company may acquire additional buildings in the future that are subject to similar ground or air leases. These 26 consolidated wholly-owned and joint venture properties represent 50.8% of the Company’s total net rentable square feet. As lessee under a ground lease, the Company is exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by the Company, of the ground lease, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 17 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating the Company’s properties may affect the Company’s results of operations. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the costs of investigating and remediating certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances or materials. The presence of such substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. Certain environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and operators of contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances. For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. No assurances can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to any of the Company’s properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of the Company’s properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to the Company, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of the Company’s properties. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances or regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. The realization of any or all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to the Company’s properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. The Company has not conducted an audit or investigation of all of the Company’s properties to determine the Company’s compliance and the Company cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of the Company’s properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then the Company would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If the Company incurs substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other related legislation, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock may be materially and adversely affected. 18 Risks Related to Erdman’s Business The continued integration of Erdman could prove difficult, disrupt the Company’s business and strain the Company’s resources. The Company acquired Erdman in March 2008. Since that time the Company has worked to integrate Erdman’s business with that of the Company. This integration continues to involve a number of risks, including: ● challenges in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; ● challenges in managing new product lines, including planning, architecture, engineering, construction, materials management, manufacturing, capital and development services; ● challenges in supporting and transitioning customers of Erdman to the Company’s technology platforms and business processes; ● diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; and ● inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs. Over the long term, the acquisition of Erdman may turn out to be less compatible with the Company’s growth strategy than originally anticipated, especially because Erdman’s operations have not been part of the Company’s core business strategy. Although the Company performed due diligence on Erdman’s business prior to acquiring Erdman, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of Erdman’s business. For example, the Company may have acquired unknown or unasserted liabilities or claims or liabilities not susceptible of discovery during the Company’s due diligence investigation that only manifest themselves at a later date. If the Company is unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The current credit crisis and adverse economic conditions could cause Erdman’s clients to delay, curtail or cancel proposed or existing projects, which could result in a decrease in demand for Erdman’s services. The demand for Erdman’s services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. Adverse economic conditions may decrease Erdman’s customers’ willingness or ability to make capital expenditures or otherwise reduce their spending to purchase Erdman’s services, which could result in reduced revenues or margins for Erdman’s business. Many of Erdman’s customers finance their projects through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and reductions in the availability of credit. Furthermore, Erdman’s customers may be affected by economic downturns that decrease the need for their services or the profitability of their services, which could result in a decrease of their cash flow from operations. A reduction in Erdman’s customers’ cash flow from operations and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing could cause Erdman’s customers to delay, curtail or cancel proposed or existing projects, which could result in a decrease in demand for Erdman’s services. Erdman’s results of operations depend upon the award of new contracts and the nature and timing of those awards. Erdman’s revenues are derived primarily from contracts awarded on a project-by-project basis. Generally, it is very difficult to predict whether and when Erdman will be awarded a new contract since many potential contracts involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process that may be affected by a number of factors, including changes in existing or assumed market conditions, financing arrangements, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because Erdman’s revenues are derived primarily from these contracts, its results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate materially from period to period depending on the timing of contract awards. In addition, adverse economic conditions could alter the overall mix of services that Erdman’s customers seek to purchase, and increased competition during a period of economic decline could result in Erdman accepting contract terms that are less favorable to Erdman than it might otherwise be able to negotiate. Changes in Erdman’s mix of services or a less favorable contracting environment may cause Erdman’s and the Company’s revenues and margins to decline. 19 If Erdman experiences delays and/or defaults in customer payments, Erdman could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of Erdman’s contracts, Erdman may at times commit its financial resources to projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on the projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require Erdman to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making payments on a project in which Erdman has devoted significant financial resources, it could have a material adverse effect on Erdman’s business. This risk can be exacerbated as a result of a downturn in economic conditions, including recent developments in the economy and capital markets. Erdman may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under its guaranteed maximum price contracts if costs increase above its estimates. Most of Erdman’s contracts are currently negotiated guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, giving Erdman’s clients a clear understanding of the project’s costs but also locking in Erdman so that Erdman bears a significant portion or all of the risk for cost overruns. Under these guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, contract prices payable by customers are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. If these estimates prove inaccurate, or the Company encounters other unanticipated difficulties with respect to projects under guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts (such as errors, omissions or other deficiencies in the components of projects designed by or on behalf of Erdman, problems with new technologies, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, adverse weather, unknown or unforeseen conditions, labor actions or disputes, changes in legal requirements, unanticipated decisions, interpretations or actions by governmental authorities having jurisdiction over the Company’s projects, fire or other casualties, terrorist or similar acts, unanticipated difficulty or delay in obtaining materials or equipment, unanticipated increase in the cost of materials or equipment, failures or defaults of suppliers or subcontractors to perform, or other causes within or beyond the control of Erdman which delay the performance or completion of a project or increase Erdman’s cost of performing the services and work to complete the project), cost overruns may occur, and Erdman could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. The existence or impact of these and other items may not be or become known until the end of a project. The nature of Erdman’s engineering, architecture, construction and other businesses exposes it to potential liabilities and disputes which may reduce its profits. Erdman engages in engineering, architecture, construction and other services where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to customers and/or third parties. In addition, the nature of Erdman’s business results in customers, subcontractors, vendors, suppliers and governmental authorities occasionally asserting claims against Erdman for damages or losses for which they believe Erdman is liable, including damages and/or losses (including consequential damages or losses) arising from allegations of: (1) defective, nonconforming, legally noncompliant or otherwise deficient design, materials, equipment or workmanship; (2) late performance, completion or delivery of all or any portion of a project; (3) bodily injury, sickness, disease or death; (4) injury to or destruction of property; (5) failure to design or perform work in accordance with applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, and regulations of any governmental authority; (6) violations of the Federal “Occupational Safety and Health Act”, or any other laws, ordinances, rules regulations or orders of any Federal, State or local public authority having jurisdiction for the safety of persons or property, including but not limited to any Fire Department and Board of Health; (7) violations or infringements of any trademark, copyright or patent, or any unfair competition, or infringement of any other tangible or intangible personal or property rights; and (8) failure to pay parties providing services, labor, materials, equipment, supplies and similar items to projects. 20 Many of Erdman’s contracts with customers do not limit Erdman’s liability for damages or losses. These claims often arise in the normal course of Erdman’s business, and may be asserted with respect to projects completed and/or past occurrences. When it is determined that Erdman has liability, such liability may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of the liability may exceed Erdman’s policy limits. Any liability not covered by insurance, in excess of insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in significant loss, which could reduce profits and cash available for operations. Furthermore, claims asserting liability for these and other matters, whether for projects previously completed or projects to be completed in the future, may not be asserted or otherwise become known until a later date. Performance problems and/or liability claims for existing or future projects could adversely impact Erdman’s reputation within its industry and among its client base, making it more difficult to obtain future projects. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with Erdman’s business may affect Erdman’s results of operations . Erdman’s operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning: ● generation, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous material and wastes; ● emissions into the air; ● discharges into waterways; and ● health and safety. Erdman’s projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require Erdman to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject Erdman to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent Erdman’s ability to operate its business and complete contracted projects. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), and comparable state laws, Erdman may be required to investigate and remediate regulated materials. CERCLA and the comparable state laws typically impose liability without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release, and liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. The environmental, workplace, employment and health and safety laws and regulations, among others, to which Erdman is subject are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. It is impossible to predict the effect that any future changes to these laws and regulations could have on Erdman. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect Erdman’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect the Company’s lease revenues and the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing: ● changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; ● changes in third party reimbursement policies; ● substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers; ● continued pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and ● increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by U.S. federal and state authorities. 21 These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of the Company’s tenants and, in turn, the Company’s lease revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to the Company. Sources of revenue for the Company’s tenants may include the U.S. federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Healthcare providers continue to face increased government and private payor pressure to control or reduce costs. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of the Company’s tenants. In addition, the failure of any of the Company’s tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored payment programs. A reduction in reimbursements to the Company’s tenants from third party payors for any reason could adversely affect the Company’s tenants’ ability to make rent payments to the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of the Company’s tenants to make rent payments to the Company. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental bodies. The Company’s tenants generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. In addition, state and local laws regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare related facilities, by requiring a certificate of need, which is issued by the applicable state health planning agency only after that agency makes a determination that a need exists in a particular area for a particular service or facility, or other similar approval. New laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could negatively affect the financial condition of the Company’s tenants. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted. In addition, certain of the Company’s medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities and their tenants may require licenses or certificates of need to operate. Failure to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant. These events could adversely affect the Company’s tenants’ ability to make rent payments to the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to the Company. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Company’s lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. 22 These laws include: ● the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients; ● the Stark II Law, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship; ● the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and ● the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts. Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of the Company’s tenants or associated hospitals could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in the Company’s medical office buildings or healthcare related facilities associated with that hospital, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the Company’s properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to promptly sell one or more properties in the Company’s portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond the Company’s control. The Company cannot predict whether the Company will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by the Company or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to the Company. The Company also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. The Company may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. The Company cannot assure you that it will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, the Company may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict it from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede the Company’s ability to sell a property even if the Company deems it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of its properties may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Any investments in unimproved real property may take significantly longer to yield income-producing returns, if at all, and may result in additional costs to the Company to comply with re-zoning restrictions or environmental regulations The Company may invest in unimproved real property. Unimproved properties generally take longer to yield income-producing returns based on the typical time required for development. Any development of unimproved real property may also expose the Company to the risks and uncertainties associated with re-zoning the land for a higher use or development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Any unsuccessful investments or delays in realizing an income-producing return or increased costs to develop unimproved real property could restrict the Company’s ability to earn its targeted rate of return on an investment or adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay operating expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 23 Risks Related to Debt Financings Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave the Company with insufficient cash to operate the Company’s properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to qualify as a REIT and may expose the Company to the risk of default under the Company’s debt obligations. At December 31, 2008, the Company has approximately $465.0 million of outstanding indebtedness, $365.0 million of which is secured. Approximately $50.6 million and $31.7 million of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness will mature in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The Company expects to incur additional debt in connection with future development and redevelopment projects and acquisitions. The Company may borrow under its Credit Facility, or borrow new funds to complete these projects and acquisitions. Additionally, the Company does not anticipate that the Company’s internally generated cash flow will be adequate to repay the Company’s existing indebtedness upon maturity and, therefore, the Company expects to repay the Company’s indebtedness through refinancings and future offerings of equity and/or debt. If the Company is required to utilize the Company’s Credit Facility for purposes other than development, redevelopment and acquisition activities, this will reduce the amount available for development and redevelopment projects and acquisitions and could slow the Company’s growth. Therefore, the Company’s level of debt and the limitations imposed on the Company by the Company’s debt agreements could have adverse consequences, including the following: ● the Company’s cash flow may be insufficient to meet the Company’s required principal and interest payments; ● the Company may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions; ● the Company may be unable to refinance the Company’s indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of the Company’s original indebtedness; ● because a portion of the Company’s debt bears interest at variable rates, an increase in interest rates could materially increase the Company’s interest expense; ● the Company may be forced to dispose of one or more of the Company’s properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; ● after debt service, the amount available for distributions to the Company’s stockholders is reduced; ● the Company’s debt level could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to the Company’s competitors with less debt; ● the Company may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing the Company’s ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; ● the Company may default on the Company’s obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on the Company’s properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; ● the Company may violate financial covenants which would cause a default on the Company’s obligations; 24 ● the Company may inadvertently violate non-financial restrictive covenants in the Company’s loan documents, such as covenants that require the Company to maintain the existence of entities, maintain insurance policies and provide financial statements, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the Company’s debt obligations; and ● the Company may default under any one of the Company’s mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions that could result in default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties. The realization of any or all of these risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. As a result of recent market events, including the contraction among and failure of certain lenders, it may be more difficult for the Company to secure financing. The Company’s results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. The Company relies on the availability of financing to execute its business strategy. Institutions from which the Company may seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed residential mortgage loans, real estate-related securities and real estate loans which have declined in value and caused losses as a result of the recent downturn in the markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. If these conditions persist, these institutions may become insolvent. As a result of recent market events, it may be more difficult for the Company to secure financing as there are fewer institutional lenders and those remaining lenders have tightened their lending standards. As a result of these events, it may be more difficult for the Company to obtain financing on attractive terms, or at all, and the Company’s financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s ability to pay distributions is dependent on a number of factors and is not assured, and the Company’s distributions to stockholders may decline at any time. The Company’s ability to make distributions depends upon a variety of factors, including efficient management of the Company’s properties and the successful implementation by the Company of a variety of the Company’s growth initiatives, and may be adversely affected by the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend on the Company earnings, the Company’s financial condition, the REIT distribution requirements and other factors that the Board of Directors may consider from time to time. The Company cannot assure you that the level of the Company’s distributions will increase over time or that the Company will be able to maintain the Company’s future distributions at levels that equal or exceed the Company’s historical distributions. The Company may be required to fund future distributions either from borrowings under the Company’s Credit Facility, with the proceeds from equity offerings, which could be dilutive, or from property sales, which could be at a loss, or reduce such distributions. A reduction in distributions to stockholders may negatively impact the Company’s stock price. 25 The Company could become highly leveraged in the future because the Company’s organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt the Company may incur. The Company’s organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that the Company or the Operating Partnership may incur. The Company could alter the balance between the Company’s total outstanding indebtedness and the value of the Company’s wholly-owned properties at any time. If the Company becomes more highly leveraged, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect the Company’s ability to make payments on the Company’s outstanding indebtedness and to pay the Company’s anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to qualify as a REIT, and may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Increases in interest rates may increase the Company’s interest expense and adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and the Company’s ability to service the Company’s indebtedness and make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has approximately $465.0 million of outstanding indebtedness, of which approximately $124.2 million, or 26.7%, is subject to variable interest rates (excluding debt subject to variable to fixed interest rate swap agreements). This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 1.9% per year as of December 31, 2008. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase the Company’s interest expense, which could adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and the Company’s ability to pay distributions. For example, if market rates of interest on this variable rate debt increased by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $1.2 million annually. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In certain cases, the Company may seek to manage the Company’s exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. Hedging involves risks, such as the risk that the counterparty may fail to honor its obligations under an arrangement, that the arrangements may not be effective in reducing the Company’s exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. In addition, the Company may be limited in the type and amount of hedging transactions the Company may use in the future by the Company’s need to satisfy the REIT income tests under the Code. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s Credit Facility and Term Loan contains financial covenants that could limit the Company’s operations and the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s Credit Facility and Term Loan (defined in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) contains financial and operating covenants, including tangible net worth requirements, fixed charge coverage and debt ratios and other limitations on the Company’s ability to make distributions or other payments to the Company’s stockholders (other than those required by the Code), sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions. 26 The Credit Facility contains customary terms and conditions for credit facilities of this type, including, but not limited to: (1) affirmative covenants relating to the Company’s corporate structure and ownership, maintenance of insurance, compliance with environmental laws and preparation of environmental reports, maintenance of the Company’s REIT qualification and listing on the New York Stock Exchange, (2) negative covenants relating to restrictions on liens, indebtedness, certain investments (including loans and certain advances), mergers and other fundamental changes, sales and other dispositions of property or assets and transactions with affiliates. The Term Loan contains customary covenants including, but not limited to, (1) affirmative covenants relating to the Company’s corporate structure and ownership, maintenance of insurance, compliance with environmental laws and preparation of environmental reports, maintenance of the Company’s REIT qualification and listing on the New York Stock Exchange, (2) negative covenants relating to restrictions on liens, indebtedness, certain investments (including loans and certain advances), mergers and other fundamental changes, sales and other dispositions of property or assets and transactions with affiliates. Both the Credit Facility and the Term Loan have financial covenants to be met by the Company at all times including a maximum total leverage ratio (70%), maximum real estate leverage ratio (70%), minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (1.50 to 1.00), maximum total debt to real estate value ratio (90%) and minimum consolidated tangible net worth ($45 million plus 85% of the net proceeds of equity issuances issued after the closing date). In addition, there are financial covenants relating only to Erdman, including a covenant relating to maximum consolidated senior indebtedness to adjusted consolidated EBITDA (4.25 to 1.00 as of December 31, 2008, decreasing to 3.75 to 1.00 on July 1, 2009). As of December 31, 2008, consolidated senior indebtedness to adjusted consolidated EBITDA was 3.71, and Erdman may be required to repay a portion of the principal balance during 2009 if adjusted consolidated EBITDA is insufficient to meet the lowered ratio of maximum consolidated senior indebtedness to adjusted consolidated EBITDA that occurs in 2009. Failure to meet the Company’s financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in the Company’s results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. Advances under the Company’s Credit Facility may be subject to borrowing base requirements on the Company’s secured medical office buildings or healthcare related facilities. These covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to engage in transactions that the Company believes would otherwise be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in the Company’s Credit Facility or Term Loan could result in a default under one or more of the Company’s debt instruments. This could cause one or more of the Company’s lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. If lenders under the Company’s Credit Facility fail to meet their funding commitments, the Company’s financial position would be negatively impacted. Access to external capital on favorable terms is critical to the Company’s success in growing and maintaining its portfolio. If financial institutions within the Company’s Credit Facility were unwilling or unable to meet their respective funding commitments to the Company, any such failure would have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, financial condition and ability to meet its obligations, including the payment of dividends to stockholders. Risks Related to the Company’s Organization and Structure Mr. Cogdell, the Company’s Chairman, owned 8.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and OP units on a fully-diluted basis as of December 31, 2008 and therefore has the ability to exercise influence over the Company and any matter presented to the Company’s stockholders. Mr. Cogdell, the Company’s Chairman, owned approximately 8.5% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and OP units on a fully-diluted basis as of December 31, 2008. Consequently, Mr. Cogdell may be able to influence the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder action, including the election of the Board of Directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers and the determination of the Company’s day-to-day corporate and management policies. Therefore, Mr. Cogdell has influence over the Company and could exercise his influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of the Company’s other stockholders. The Company’s business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with the Company. The Company’s success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of Mr. Cogdell, the Company’s Chairman, Mr. Spencer, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the Board of Directors, and the other members of the Company’s senior management team. The Company’s senior management team has an average of 23 years of experience in the healthcare real estate industry. In addition, the Company’s ability to continue to acquire and develop properties depends on the significant relationships the Company’s senior management team has developed. There is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by the Company. The Company does not maintain key person life insurance on any of the Company’s officers. The loss of services of one or more members of the Company’s senior management team could harm the Company’s business and the Company’s prospects. 27 Tax indemnification obligations could limit the Company’s operating flexibility by limiting the Company’s ability to sell specified properties. In connection with the formation transactions and certain other property acquisitions, the Company entered into a tax protection agreement with the former owners of each contributed medical office building or healthcare related facility who received OP units. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company will not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the medical office buildings or healthcare related facilities (each a “protected asset”) or any interest in a protected asset prior to the eighth anniversary of the closing of the offering unless: 1. a majority-in-interest of the former holders of interests in the predecessor partnerships or contributing entities (or their successors, which may include the Company to the extent any OP units have been redeemed or exchanged) with respect to such protected asset consent to the sale, transfer of other disposition; provided, however, with respect to three of the predecessor entities, Cabarrus POB, LLC, Medical Investors I, LLC and Medical Investors III, LLC, the required consent shall be a majority-in-interest of the beneficial owners of interests in the predecessor entities other than Messrs. Cogdell and Spencer and their affiliates; or 2. the Operating Partnership delivers to each such holder of interests, a cash payment intended to approximate the holder’s tax liability related to the recognition of such holder’s built-in gain resulting from the sale of such protected asset; or 3. the sale, transfer or other disposition would not result in the recognition of any built-in gain by any such holder of interests. Protected assets represent approximately 75.6% of the Company’s total net rentable square feet. If the Company were to sell all of these protected assets and the Company undertook such sale without obtaining the requisite consent of the contributing holders, then the Company would be required to make material payments to these holders. The prospect of making payments under the tax protection agreements could impede the Company’s ability to respond to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. For example, it may not be economical for the Company to raise cash quickly through a sale of one or more of the Company’s protected assets or dispose of a poorly performing protected asset until the expiration of the eight-year protection period. Tax indemnification obligations may require the Operating Partnership to maintain certain debt levels. The Company’s tax protection agreements also provide that during the period from the closing of the initial public offering in 2005 through the twelfth anniversary thereof, the Operating Partnership will offer each holder who continues to hold at least 50% of the OP units received in respect of the consolidation transaction the opportunity to: (1) guarantee debt or (2) enter into a deficit restoration obligation. If the Company fails to offer such opportunities, the Company will be required to deliver to each holder a cash payment intended to approximate the holder’s tax liability resulting from the Company’s failure to make such opportunities available to that holder. The Company agreed to these provisions in order to assist such holders in deferring the recognition of taxable gain as a result of and after the consolidation transaction. These obligations may require the Company to maintain more or different indebtedness than the Company would otherwise require for the Company’s business. 28 The Company may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of contribution and other agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of the Company’s officers. Mr. Cogdell, the Company’s Chairman, Mr. Spencer, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of the Board of Directors, Charles M. Handy, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Secretary, and other members of the Company’s management team, have direct or indirect ownership interests in certain properties contributed to the Operating Partnership in the Formation Transactions. The Company, under the agreements relating to the contribution of such interests, is entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the contributors. The Company may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, the Company’s rights under these agreements because of the Company’s desire to maintain the Company’s ongoing relationships with the individual party to these agreements. In connection with the acquisition of Erdman, the Company entered into various agreements with Erdman, including the merger agreement, pursuant to which the Company is entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations and warranties made by Erdman. Because two members of the Company’s Board of Directors, Mr. Lubar and Mr. Ransom, and certain other key employees and personnel were also former owners, officers and directors of Erdman, the Company may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, the Company’s rights under these agreements. In addition, the Company is party to employment agreements with Messrs. Cogdell, Spencer, Handy and Ransom, which provide for additional severance following termination of employment if the Company elects to subject the executive officer to certain non-competition, confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions. Although their employment agreements require that they devote substantially all of their full business time and attention to the Company, if the executive officer forgoes the additional severance, he will not be subject to such non-competition provisions, which would allow him to compete with the Company. None of these agreements were negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of the Company UPREIT structure. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between the Company and the Company’s affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. The Company’s directors and officers have duties to the Company under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of the Company. At the same time, the Company, through the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, has fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to the Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of the Operating Partnership. The Company’s duties, through the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, as a general partner to the Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of the Company’s directors and officers. The partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership does not require the Company to resolve such conflicts in favor of either the Company’s stockholders or the limited partners in the Operating Partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. Additionally, the partnership agreement expressly limits the Company’s liability by providing that neither the Company, nor the Company’s wholly-owned Maryland business trust subsidiary, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of the Company or its trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to the Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if the general partner or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, the Operating Partnership is required to indemnify the Company, the Company’s affiliates and each of the Company’s respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that the Operating Partnership will not indemnify any such person for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. 29 The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and the Company has not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict the Company’s fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. Certain provisions of the Company’s organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by the Company’s charter, could prevent or delay a change in control transaction. The Company’s charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes the Company’s directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve the Company’s qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of 7.75% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s outstanding common stock or 7.75% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt additional persons from the ownership limit. However, the Board of Directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership could jeopardize the Company’s qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on ownership will not apply if the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the Company’s best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for the Company’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for holders of the Company’s common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including: ● “business combination” provisions that, subject to certain limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between the Company and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and ● “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of the Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the Company’s stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. These provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, the Board of Directors has by resolution exempted Mr. Cogdell, his affiliates and associates and all persons acting in concert with the foregoing, and Mr. Spencer, his affiliates and associates and all persons acting in concert with the foregoing, from these provisions of the MGCL and, consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between the Company and these persons. As a result, these persons may be able to enter into business combinations with the Company that may not be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders without compliance by the Company with the supermajority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. In addition, the Company’s by-laws contain a provision exempting from the provisions of the MGCL relating to control share acquisitions any and all acquisitions by any person of the Company’s common stock. There can be no assurance that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the Company’s charter or bylaws, to take certain actions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium to the market price of the Company’s common stock or otherwise be in the Company’s stockholders’ best interests. 30 The Board of Directors has the power to cause the Company to issue additional shares of the Company’s stock and the general partner has the power to issue additional OP units without stockholder approval. The Company’s charter authorizes the Board of Directors to cause the Company to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock, or preferred stock and to amend the Company’s charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the authorized number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. The general partner will be given the authority to issue additional OP units. In addition, the Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. The Board of Directors could cause the Company to issue additional shares of the Company’s common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for the Company’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s rights and the rights of the Company’s stockholders to take action to recover money damages from the Company’s directors and officers are limited. The Company’s charter eliminates the Company’s directors’ and officers’ liability to the Company and the Company’s stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. The Company’s charter authorizes the Company, and the Company’s bylaws require the Company, to indemnify the Company’s directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, the Company may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by the Company’s directors and officers. You will have limited ability as a stockholder to prevent the Company from making any changes to the Company policies that you believe could harm the Company’s business, prospects, operating results or share price. The Board of Directors will adopt policies with respect to certain activities, such as investments, dispositions, financing, lending, the Company’s equity capital, conflicts of interest and reporting. These policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of the Board of Directors without a vote of the Company’s stockholders. This means that the Company’s stockholders will have limited control over changes in the Company’s policies. Such changes in the Company’s policies intended to improve, expand or diversify the Company’s business may not have the anticipated effects and consequently may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, the Company’s ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. To the extent the Company’s distributions represent a return of capital for tax purposes you could recognize an increased capital gain upon a subsequent sale by you of the Company’s common stock. Distributions in excess of the Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by the Company as a dividend will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in its common stock, but instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in its common stock. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder’s adjusted basis in such holder’s common stock, subsequent sales of such holder’s common stock potentially will result in recognition of an increased capital gain or reduced capital loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis. If the Company were to make a taxable distribution of shares of its stock, stockholders may be required to sell such shares or sell other assets owned by them in order to pay any tax imposed on such distribution. As a REIT, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its stockholders. The Company may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in shares of its stock. Under IRS Revenue Procedure 2009-15, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2009 could be payable in its shares. If the Company were to make such a taxable distribution of shares of its stock, stockholders would be required to include the full amount of such distribution into income. As a result, a stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of cash received. Accordingly, stockholders receiving a distribution of the Company’s shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a stockholder sells the shares it receives as a dividend in order to pay such tax, the sale proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of shares of its stock at the time of sale. Moreover, in the case of a taxable distribution of shares of the Company’s stock with respect to which any withholding tax is imposed on a stockholder, the Company may have to withhold or dispose of part of the shares in such distribution and use such withheld shares or the proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. 31 Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT The Company’s failure to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to the Company and the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will allow the Company to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. The Company has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that the Company qualifies as a REIT, and the statements in the Company’s prospectus and other filings are not binding on the IRS or any court. If the Company fails to qualify or loses the Company’s qualification as a REIT, the Company will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders for each of the years involved because: ● the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing the Company’s taxable income and the Company would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; ● the Company also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and ● unless the Company is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, the Company could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following a year during which the Company was disqualified. In addition, if the Company loses its qualification as a REIT, the Company will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to the Company’s stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of the Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that the Company’s U.S. individual stockholders would be taxed on the Company’s dividends at a maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 15% (through 2010), and the Company’s corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations, or Treasury Regulations, that have been promulgated under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like the Company, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control may affect the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, the Company must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of the Company’s assets and sources of the Company’s gross income. Also, the Company must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s net taxable income, excluding capital gains. As a result of these factors, the Company’s loss of its qualification as a REIT also could impair the Company’s ability to expand the Company’s business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock. To maintain the Company REIT qualification, the Company may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, the Company generally must distribute to the Company’s stockholders at least 90% of the Company’s net taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and the Company will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that the Company distributes less than 100% of the Company’s net taxable income each year. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by the Company in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of the Company’s ordinary income, 95% of the Company’s capital gain net income and 100% of the Company’s undistributed income from prior years. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, the Company may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. 32 Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders is 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including the Company’s common stock. In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect the value of the Company’s properties. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could adversely affect the Company and the Company’s stockholders. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect the Company or the Company’s stockholders. The Company cannot predict whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to the Company or the Company’s stockholders will be changed. Complying with REIT requirements may cause the Company to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of the Company’s income, the nature and diversification of the Company’s assets, the amounts the Company distributes to the Company’s stockholders and the ownership of the Company’s stock. In order to meet these tests, the Company may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate solely to maximize profits. The Company will pay some taxes. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on the Company’s income and property. In addition, the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, Erdman, CSA LLC, and Consera are fully taxable corporations that will be subject to taxes on their income and such TRSs may be limited in their ability to deduct interest payments made to the Company or the Operating Partnership. The Company also will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among the Company’s tenants, the Company’s TRSs and the Company are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if the Company receives payments for inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. To the extent that the Company or the Company’s TRSs are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, the Company will have less cash available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. The ability of the Board of Directors to revoke the Company REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s charter provides that the Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate the Company REIT election, without the approval of the Company’s stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in the Company’s best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If the Company ceases to qualify as a REIT, the Company would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on the Company’s taxable income and the Company would no longer be required to distribute most of the Company’s taxable income to the Company’s stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to the Company’s stockholders. 33 The Company’s ability to invest in TRSs is limited by its qualification as a REIT, and accordingly may limit its ability to grow the business of Erdman. With respect to the Company’s taxable year ended December 31, 2008 and prior taxable years, no more than 20% of the value of its assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs. Commencing with the Company’s taxable year ending December 31, 2009, the foregoing restriction on its ability to own securities of TRSs has increased to 25%. The Company has jointly elected with Erdman, to treat such entities as TRSs. The Company has also jointly elected with each of CSA, LLC and Consera Healthcare Real Estate, LLC to treat such entities as TRSs. Accordingly, the Company’s ability to grow and expand the business of Erdman and its other TRSs, absent a corresponding increase in the value of its real estate assets, will be limited by its need to continue to meet the applicable TRS limitation which could adversely affect returns to its shareholders. If the aggregate value of the securities the Company owns in its TRSs were determined to be in excess of 25% (20% with respect to our taxable year ended December 31, 2008) of the value of its total assets, the Company could fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to a penalty tax and forced to dispose of TRS securities. For the Company to continue to qualify as a REIT, the aggregate value of all securities that the Company holds in its TRSs may not exceed 25% (20% with respect to its taxable year ended December 31, 2008) of the value of its total assets. The value of its securities in TRSs and its real estate assets is based on determinations of fair market value which are not subject to precise determination. The Company will not lose its qualification as a REIT if the Company were to fail the TRS limitation at the end of a quarter because of a discrepancy between the value of its TRSs and its other investments unless such discrepancy exists after the acquisition of TRS securities and is wholly or partially the result of such acquisition (including as a result of an increased investment in existing TRSs, either directly, by way of a limited partner of its operating partnership exercising an exchange right, or by the Company raising additional capital and contributing such capital to its operating partnership). If the Company were to fail to satisfy the TRS limitation at the end of a particular quarter and it was considered to have acquired TRS securities during such quarter, it would fail to qualify as a REIT unless it cured such failure by disposing of TRS securities or otherwise came into compliance with the TRS limitation within 30 days after the close of such quarter. Based on such rules and the Company’s determination of the fair market value of its assets and the securities of its TRS, the Company believes that the Company has satisfied and will continue to satisfy the TRS limitation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as the fair market value of the Company’s TRS securities and real estate assets cannot be determined with absolute certainty, and the Company does not control when a limited partner of its operating partnership will exercise its redemption right, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not successfully challenge the valuations of the Company’s assets or that the Company met and will continue to meet the TRS limitation. In addition, if the value of the Company’s real estate assets were to decrease, the Company’s ability to own TRS securities or other assets not qualifying as real estate assets will be limited and the Company could be forced to dispose of its TRS securities or such other assets in order to comply with REIT requirements. If the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge its valuation of certain of its subsidiaries, the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT. While the Company believes the Company has properly valued the securities the Company holds in Erdman and all of its taxable REIT subsidiaries, there is no guarantee that the Internal Revenue Service would agree with such valuation or that a court would agree with such determination by the Internal Revenue Service. In the event the Company has improperly valued the securities the Company holds in Erdman, the Company may fail to satisfy the 25% (20% with respect to its taxable year ended December 31, 2008 and prior taxable years) asset test which may result in its failure to qualify as a REIT. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 