Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our operating businesses were recently transferred to us, we have a limited operating history on a combined basis, and we are therefore subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business and the combination of existing businesses. In June 2005, we were formed for the purpose of combining two leading senior living operating companies, Brookdale Living Communities, Inc., or BLC, and Alterra Healthcare Corporation, or Alterra, through a series of mergers that occurred in September 2005. Prior to this combination, we had no operations or assets. We are therefore subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business and the combination of existing businesses, including the risk that we will not be able to realize expected efficiencies and economies of scale or implement our business strategies. As such, we only have a brief combined and consolidated operating history upon which investors may evaluate our performance as an integrated entity and assess our future prospects. In addition, from the date of our initial public offering in November 2005, we have purchased or have entered into definitive agreements to purchase over 222 additional facilities, including 83 facilities from ARC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate and oversee the combined operations of BLC and Alterra and the additional facilities purchased in these acquisitions. Accordingly, our financial performance to date may not be indicative of our long-term future performance and may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we not operated as separate, stand-alone entities pursuing independent strategies during the periods presented. We have a history of losses and one of our operating subsidiaries, Alterra, emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in December 2003; therefore, we may not be able to achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in every quarter since our formation in June 2005. In addition, Alterra emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in December 2003, approximately 11 months after filing a voluntary petition for bankruptcy reorganization, pursuant to which it sought to facilitate and complete its ongoing restructuring initiatives. Prior to its reorganization, Alterra’s overall cash position had declined to a level that it believed to be insufficient to operate the company. This resulted in its failure to make certain scheduled debt service and lease payments, which caused it to be in default under several of its principal financing arrangements. The principal components of Alterra’s restructuring pl an were to dispose of selected under-performing and non-strategic assets and to restructure its capital structure. Alterra emerged from bankruptcy in December 2003 and in connection with its reorganization, Alterra adopted fresh start accounting as of December 4, 2003. Given our history of losses and Alterra’s recent emergence from bankruptcy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and/or maintain profitability in the future. If we do not effectively manage our cash flow and combined business operations going forward or otherwise achieve profitability, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and our stock price would be adversely affected. You may not be able to compare our historical financial information to our current financial information, which will make it more difficult to evaluate an investment in our securities. As a result of Alterra’s emergence from bankruptcy, we are operating a portion of our business with a new capital structure and have adopted fresh start accounting prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, unlike companies that have not previously filed for bankruptcy protection, a portion of our financial condition and results of operations are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in Alterra’s historical financial statements for periods prior to December 4, 2003 contained in this report. Without historical financial statements to compare to our current performance, it may be more difficult for you to assess our future prospects when evaluating an in vestment in our securities. 18 Table of Contents Failure to successfully and efficiently integrate the facilities of ARC into our operations may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. On July 25, 2006, we completed our acquisition of ARC. Our ability to successfully integrate the facilities of ARC is uncertain. The acquisition of ARC was significantly larger than any acquisition we have completed since the completion of our initial public offering in November 2005. The purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion in cash represented more than ten times the amount of cash on our balance sheet at March 31, 2006. The integration of ARC’s 83 facilities into our operations is a significant undertaking, as our resident capacity increased by nearly 50%, and will require significant attention from our management team. In addition, we have made several assumptions regarding synergies for the combined company , many of which are dependent upon how successful we are in integrating the operations of the two companies. We have added approximately 11,600 additional employees to our operations, including a Co-Chief Executive Officer and five executive vice presidents, which has increased our labor costs. In addition, the integration of ARC into our operations will require significant one-time costs for tasks such as site visits and audits and may be difficult to execute. Additional integration challenges include, among other things: • retaining existing residents; • persuading employees of Brookdale and ARC that the business cultures are compatible, maintaining morale, and retaining and integrating key employees; • incorporating new facilities into our business operations; • integrating facilities from our other recent acquisitions into our business operations simultaneously with the integration of ARC; • consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • coordinating sales and marketing functions; and • maintaining our standards, controls, procedures, and policies (including effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures). If we are not able to successfully overcome these integration challenges, we may not achieve the benefits we expect from the acquisition of ARC, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties in acquiring facilities at attractive prices or integrating acquisitions with our operations, which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We will continue to target strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise. The process of integrating acquired facilities into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, divert managerial attention or require significant financial resources. These acquisitions and other future acquisitions may require us to incur additional indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may result in unforeseen expenses or compliance issues, which may limit our revenue growth, cash flows, and our ability to achieve profitability and pay dividends to our stockholders. Moreover, any future acquisitions may not generate any additional income for us or provide any benefit to our business. In addition, we cannot assure you th at we will be able to locate and acquire facilities at attractive prices in locations that are compatible with our strategy or that competition for the acquisition of facilities will not increase. Finally, when we are able to locate facilities and enter into definitive agreements to acquire or lease them, we cannot assure you that the transactions will be completed. Failure to complete transactions after we have entered into definitive agreements may result in significant expenses to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to cover required interest and lease payments, this would result in defaults of the related debt or leases and cross-defaults under other debt or leases, which would adversely affect our ability to continue to generate income. We have significant indebtedness and lease obligations, and we intend to continue financing our facilities through mortgage financing, long-term leases and other types of financing, including 19 Table of Contents borrowings under our lines of credit and future credit facilities we may obtain. We cannot give any assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to cover required interest, principal and lease payments. Any non-payment or other default under our financing arrangements could, subject to cure provisions, cause the lender to foreclose upon the facility or facilities securing such indebtedness or, in the case of a lease, cause the lessor to terminate the lease, each with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. Furthermore, in some cases, indebtedness is secured by both a mortgage on a facility (or facilities) and a guaranty by us, BLC, ARC and/or Alterra. In the event of a default under one of these scenarios, the lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by declaring all amounts outstanding under the guaranty immediately due and payable, and requiring the respective guarantor to fulfill its obligations to make such payments. The realization of any of these scenarios would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and capital structure. Additionally, a foreclosure on any of our properties could cause us to recognize taxable income, even if we did not receive any cash proceeds in connection with such foreclosure. Further, because our mortgages and leases generally contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions, a default by us related to one facility could affect a significant number of our facilities and their corresponding financing arrangements and leases. Our indebtedness and long-term leases could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to operate our business and our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our level of indebtedness and our long-term leases could adversely affect our future operations and/or impact our stockholders for several reasons, including, without limitation: • We may have little or no cash flow apart from cash flow that is dedicated to the payment of any interest, principal or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness and lease payments with respect to our long-term leases; • Increases in our outstanding indebtedness, leverage and long-term leases will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; • Increases in our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes; and • Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to make lease payments on our leases depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or to make lease payments on our leases, we may be required, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell selected assets, red uce or delay planned capital expenditures or delay or abandon desirable acquisitions. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to make lease payments on our leases. The failure to make required payments on our debt or leases or the delay or abandonment of our planned growth strategy could result in an adverse effect on our future ability to generate revenues and sustain profitability. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms to us. Our existing credit facilities, mortgage loans and lease arrangements contain covenants that restrict our operations and any default under such facilities, loans or arrangements could result in the acceleration of indebtedness, termination of the leases or cross-defaults, any of which would negatively impact our liquidity and inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. Our outstanding indebtedness and leases contain restrictions and covenants and require us to maintain or satisfy specified financial ratios and coverage tests, including maintaining prescribed net worth levels, leverage ratios and debt service and lease coverage ratios on a consolidated basis, and on 20 Table of Contents a facility or facilities basis based on the debt or lease securing the facilities. In addition, certain of our leases require us to maintain lease coverage ratios on a lease portfolio basis (each as defined in the leases) and maintain stockholders’ equity or tangible net worth amounts. The debt service coverage ratios are generally calculated as revenues less operating expenses, including an implied management fee and a reserve for capital expenditures, divided by the debt (principal and interest) or lease payment. Stockholders’ equity is calculated in accordance with GAAP, and in certain circumstances less intangible assets or liabilities, or stockholders’ equity plus deferred gains from sale-leaseback transactions, and deferred entrance fee revenue. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the n the related indebtedness could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we could pay this debt if it became due. Our outstanding indebtedness and leases are secured by our facilities and, in certain cases, a guaranty by us, BLC, ARC and/or Alterra. Therefore, an event of default under the outstanding indebtedness or leases, subject to cure provisions in certain instances, would give the respective lenders or lessors, as applicable, the right to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, terminate the lease, foreclose on collateral securing the outstanding indebtedness and leases, and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings under the outstanding indebtedness or continue to operate the properties subject to the lease. Certain of our outstanding indebtedness and leases contain cross-default provisions so that a default under certain outstanding indebtedness would cause a default under certain of our leases. Certain of our outstanding indebtedness and leases also restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt. The substantial majority of our lease arrangements are structured as master leases. Under a master lease, we may lease a large number of geographically dispersed properties through an indivisible lease. As a result, it is difficult to restructure the composition of the portfolio or economic terms of the lease without the consent of the landlord. Failure to comply with Medicare or Medicaid provider requirements is a default under several of our master lease and debt financing instruments. In addition, potential defaults related to an individual property may cause a default of an entire master lease portfolio and could trigger cross-default provisions in our outstanding indebtedness and other leases, which would have a negative impa ct on our capital structure and our ability to generate future revenues, and could interfere with our ability to pursue our growth strategy. Certain of our master leases also contain radius restrictions, which limit our ability to own, develop or acquire new facilities within a specified distance from certain existing facilities covered by such master leases. These radius restrictions could negatively affect our acquisition and expansion plans. Mortgage debt and lease obligations expose us to increased risk of loss of property, which could harm our ability to generate future revenues and could have an adverse tax effect. Mortgage debt and lease obligations increase our risk of loss because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties or pursuant to the terms of the lease may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders or lessors and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default or cause the lessor to terminate the lease. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, whic h could negatively impact our earnings. Further, our mortgage debt and leases generally contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions and a default on one facility could affect a significant number of our facilities, financing arrangements and leases. 21 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business, ability to maintain consistent quality control and financial results could be adversely affected. We plan to grow organically through our existing operations, through selectively purchasing existing senior living operating companies and facilities, through the expansion of our existing facilities, and through the expansion of our ancillary services programs. This growth has and will continue to place significant demands on our current management resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and to successfully integrate new acquisitions and expansions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational, financial and management information systems and to continue to retain, attract, train, motivate and manage key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attractin g qualified individuals to the extent necessary, and management may expend significant time and energy attracting the appropriate personnel to manage assets we purchase in the future and our expansion activities. Also, the additional facilities and expansion activities will require us to maintain consistent quality control measures that allow our management to effectively identify deviations that result in delivering care and services that are substandard, which may result in litigation and/or loss of licensure or certification. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively and successfully integrate new acquisitions and expansions into our existing business or maintain consistent quality control measures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Unforeseen costs associated with the acquisition of new facilities could reduce our future profitability. Our growth strategy contemplates future acquisitions of existing senior living operating companies and facilities. Despite our extensive underwriting and due diligence procedures, facilities that we may acquire in the future may generate unexpectedly low or no returns or may not meet a risk profile that our investors find acceptable. In addition, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any of the acquired facilities, including contingent liabilities, or newly acquired facilities might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. For example, a facility may require capital expenditures in excess of budgeted amounts, or it may experience manageme nt turnover that is higher than we project. These costs may negatively affect our future profitability. Competition for the acquisition of strategic assets from buyers with lower costs of capital than us or that have lower return expectations than we do could limit our ability to compete for strategic acquisitions and therefore to grow our business effectively. Several real estate investment trusts, or REITs, have similar asset acquisition objectives as we do, along with greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. This may increase competition for acquisitions that would be suitable to us, making it more difficult for us to compete and successfully implement our growth strategy. There is significant competition among potential acquirers in the senior living industry, including REITs, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our growth strategy or complete acquisitions, which could limit our ability to grow our business effectively. If we are unable to expand our facilities in accordance with our plans, our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are currently working on projects that will expand several of our existing senior living facilities over the next several years. We are also developing certain new senior living facilities. These projects are in various stages of development and are subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control. Such factors include the necessity of arranging separate leases, mortgage loans or other financings to provide the capital required to complete these projects; difficulties or delays in obtaining zoning, land use, building, occupancy, licensing, certificate of need and other required governmental permits and approvals; failure to complete construction of the projects on budget and on schedule; failure of third-p arty contractors and subcontractors to perform under their contracts; shortages of labor or materials that could delay projects or make them more expensive; adverse weather conditions that could delay completion of projects; increased costs resulting from general economic conditions or increases in the cost of materials; and increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations. 22 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will elect to undertake or complete all of our proposed expansion and development projects, or that we will not experience delays in completing those projects. In addition, we may incur substantial costs prior to achieving stabilized occupancy for each such project and cannot assure you that these costs will not be greater than we have anticipated. We also cannot assure you that any of our development projects will be economically successful. Our failure to achieve our expansion and development plans could adversely impact our growth objectives, and our anticipated revenues and results of operations. We may need additional capital to fund our operations and finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may limit our ability to grow. Continued expansion of our business through the acquisition of existing senior living operating companies and facilities and expansion of our existing facilities will require additional capital, particularly if we were to accelerate our acquisition and expansion plans. Financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on terms that are not favorable. In addition, certain of our outstanding indebtedness and long-term leases restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain them on terms acceptable to us, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Further, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of addition al equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be diluted. Any newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We will rely on reimbursement from governmental programs for a greater portion of our revenues than before, and will be subject to changes in reimbursement levels, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. We will rely on reimbursement from governmental programs for a greater portion of our revenues than before, and we cannot assure you that reimbursement levels will not decrease in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. As of January 1, 2006, certain per person annual limits on Medicare reimbursement for therapy services became effective, subject to certain exceptions. These exceptions may be modified or may not be extended by Congress at a future date. There continue to be various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals to implement cost containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers in the future. Changes in the reimbursement policies of the Medic are program could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Due to the dependency of our revenues on private pay sources, events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our monthly resident fees could cause our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations to decline. Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our facilities are located typically can afford to pay our monthly resident fees. Economic downturns or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees. In addition, downturns in the housing markets would adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our entrance fees and resident fees as our customers frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of our fees. If we are unable to retain and/or attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services, our occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations would decline. We are susceptible to risks associated with the lifecare benefits that we offer the residents of our lifecare entrance fee communities. As of December 31, 2006, we operated seven lifecare entrance fee facilities that offer residents a limited lifecare benefit. Residents of these facilities pay an upfront entrance fee upon occupancy, of which a portion is generally refundable, with an additional monthly service fee while living in the facility. This limited lifecare benefit is typically (a) a certain number of free days in the facility’s health 23 Table of Contents center during the resident’s lifetime, (b) a discounted rate for such services, or (c) a combination of the two. The lifecare benefit varies based upon the extent to which the resident’s entrance fee is refundable. The pricing of entrance fees, refundability provisions, monthly service fees, and lifecare benefits are determined utilizing actuarial projections of the expected morbidity and mortality of the resident population. In the event the entrance fees and monthly service payments established for our facilities are not sufficient to cover the cost of lifecare benefits granted to residents, the results of operations and financial condition of these facilities could be adversely affected. Residents of these entrance fee facilities are guaranteed a living unit and nursing care at the facility during their lifetime, even if the resident exhausts his or her financial resources and becomes unable to satisfy his or her obligations to the facility. In addition, in the event a resident requires nursing care and there is insufficient capacity for the resident in the nursing facility at the facility where the resident lives, the facility must contract with a third party to provide such care. Although we screen potential residents to ensure that they have adequate assets, income, and reimbursements from government programs and third parties to pay their obligations to our facilities during their lifetime, we cannot assure yo u that such assets, income, and reimbursements will be sufficient in all cases. If insufficient, we have rights of set-off against the refundable portions of the residents’ deposits, and would also seek available reimbursement under Medicaid or other available programs. To the extent that the financial resources of some of the residents are not sufficient to pay for the cost of facilities and services provided to them, or in the event that our facilities must pay third parties to provide nursing care to residents of our facilities, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The geographic concentration of our facilities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas, resulting in a decrease in our revenues or an increase in our costs, or otherwise negatively impacting our results of operations. We have a high concentration of facilities in Florida, Texas and North Carolina. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to assisted living facilities, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for senior living services in these states could have an adverse effect on our revenues, costs and results of operations. In addition, given the location of our facilities, we are particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by other severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes or tornados. Any significant loss due to a natu ral disaster may not be covered by insurance and may lead to an increase in the cost of insurance. Termination of our resident agreements and vacancies in the living spaces we lease could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and occupancy levels. State regulations governing assisted living facilities require written resident agreements with each resident. Several of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, several of our assisted living resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements upon 0 to 30 days’ notice. Unlike typical apartment leasing or independent living arrangements that involve lease agreements with specified leasing periods of up to a year or longer, in many instances we cannot contract with our assisted living residents to stay in those living spaces for longer periods of time. Our independent living resid ent agreements generally provide for termination of the lease upon death or allow a resident to terminate his or her lease upon the need for a higher level of care not provided at the facility. The resident is usually obligated to pay rent for the lesser of 60 days after the move out or until the unit is rented by another resident. If multiple residents terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues, earnings and occupancy levels could be adversely affected. In addition, because of the demographics of our typical residents, including age and health, resident turnover rates in our facilities are difficult to predict. As a result, the living spaces we lease may be unoccupied for a period of time, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 24 Table of Contents Increased competition for or a shortage of skilled personnel could increase our staffing and labor costs, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability and/or our ability to conduct our business operations. Our success depends on our ability to retain and attract skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our facilities. Each facility has an Executive Director responsible for the overall day-to-day operations of the facility, including quality of care, social services and financial performance. Depending upon the size of the facility, each Director is supported by a facility staff member who is directly responsible for day-to-day care of the residents and either facility staff or regional support to oversee the facility’s marketing and community outreach programs. Other key positions supporting each facility may include individuals responsible for food service, healthcare services, therapy services, activities, housekeeping and engineering. We compete with various health care service providers, including other senior living providers, in retaining and attracting qualified and skilled personnel. Increased competition for or a shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel, or general inflationary pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel. We may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates we charge to our residents or our service charges. Turnover rates and the magnitude of the shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel varies substantially from facility to facility. Although reliable industry-wide data on key employee retention does not exist, we believe that our employee retention rates are consistent with those of other national senior housing operators. If there is an increase in these costs, our profitability would be negatively affected. In addition, if we fail to attra ct and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our ability to conduct our business operations effectively, our ability to implement our growth strategy, and our overall operating results could be harmed. Departure of our key officers could harm our business. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, particularly: Mark J. Schulte, our co-chief executive officer; W.E. Sheriff, our co-chief executive officer; Mark W. Ohlendorf, our co-president and chief financial officer effective March 30, 2007; and John P. Rijos, our co-president. If we were to lose the services of any of these individuals, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Increases in market interest rates could significantly increase the costs of our unhedged debt and lease obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. Our unhedged floating-rate debt and lease payment obligations and any unhedged floating-rate debt incurred in the future, exposes us to interest rate risk. Therefore, increases in prevailing interest rates could increase our payment obligations, which would negatively impact our liquidity and earnings. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends and the failure to do so would adversely affect our stock price. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends to the holders of our common stock. However, our ability to pay and maintain cash dividends is based on many factors, including our ability to make and finance growth and acquisitions, our ability to negotiate favorable lease and other contractual terms, anticipated operating expense levels, the level of demand for our units/beds, anticipated entrance fee sales and the rates we charge. Actual results may vary substantially from estimates. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay or maintain dividends. We can give no assurance as to our ability to pay or maintain dividends. We also cannot assure you that the le vel of dividends will be maintained or increase over time or that increases in demand for our units/beds and monthly resident fees will increase our actual cash available for dividends to stockholders. We expect that we will pay dividends that exceed our net income for the applicable quarter as calculated in accordance with GAAP. The failure to pay or maintain dividends would adversely affect our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Environmental contamination at any of our facilities could result in substantial liabilities to us, which may exceed the value of the underlying assets and which could materially and adversely effect our liquidity and earnings. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us, may be held liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related to the release of, certain hazardous or toxic substances, that could be located on, in, at or under a property, regardless of how such materials came to be located there. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, mitigation, compliance, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could exceed the property’s value and/or our assets’ value. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate the d amage caused by such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property, to attract additional residents and retain existing residents, to borrow using such property as collateral or to develop or redevelop such property. In addition, such laws impose liability, which may be joint and several, for investigation, remediation, removal and mitigation costs on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at third party sites. Such laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of such substances as well as without regard to whether such release or disposal was in compliance with law at the time it occurred. Although we do not believe that we have incurred such liabilities as would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, we could be subject to substantial future liability for environmental contaminatio n that we have no knowledge about as of the date of this report and/or for which we may not be at fault. Failure to comply with existing environmental laws could result in increased expenditures, litigation and potential loss to our business and in our asset value, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state and local environmental laws, including those relating to: the handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of medical waste products generated at our facilities; identification and warning of the presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, as well as removal of such materials; the presence of other substances in the indoor environment; and protection of the environment and natural resources in connection with development or construction of our properties. Some of our facilities generate infectious or other hazardous medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. Each of our facilities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste, but the use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to cleanup disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed. Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building’s management to identify and warn their employees and certain other employers operating in the building of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials in their buildings. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. Building owners and those exercising control over a building’s management may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release to the environment of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials and may provide for fines to, and for third parties to seek recovery from, owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or improper work exposure associated with asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials. 26 Table of Contents The presence of mold, lead-based paint, contaminants in drinking water, radon and/or other substances at any of the facilities we own or may acquire may lead to the incurrence of costs for remediation, mitigation or the implementation of an operations and maintenance plan and may result in third party litigation for personal injury or property damage. Furthermore, in some circumstances, areas affected by mold may be unusable for periods of time for repairs, and even after successful remediation, the known prior presence of extensive mold could adversely affect the ability of a facility to retain or attract residents and could adversely affect a facility’s market value. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, if we fail to comply with such laws in the future, we would face increased expenditures both in terms of fines and remediation of the underlying problem(s), potential litigation relating to exposure to such materials, and potential decrease in value to our business and in the value of our underlying assets. Therefore, our failure to comply with existing environmental laws would have an adverse effect on our earnings, our financial condition and our ability to pursue our growth strategy. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local environmental regulation and legislation. Changes in the environmental regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, because environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our facilities. We are subject to risks associated with complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to include a report with each Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding our internal controls over financial reporting. We have implemented processes documenting and evaluating our system of internal controls. Complying with these new requirements is expensive, time consuming and subject to changes in regulatory requirements. The existence of one or more material weaknesses, management’s conclusion that its internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or the inability of our auditors to express an opinion or attest that our management’s report is fairly stated, could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, adversely affect our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Risks Related to Pending Litigation Recent complaints filed against our subsidiary could, if adversely determined, subject us to a material loss. In connection with the sale of certain facilities to Ventas Realty Limited Partnership (‘‘Ventas’’) in 2004, two legal actions have been filed. The first action was filed on September 15, 2005, by current and former limited partners in 36 investing partnerships in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York captioned David T. Atkins et al. v. Apollo Real Estate Advisors, L.P., et al. (the ‘‘Action’’). On March 17, 2006, a third amended complaint was filed in the Action. The third amended complaint is brought on behalf of current and former limited partners in 14 investing partnerships. It names as defendants, among others, the Company, BLC, a subsidiary of the Company, GFB-AS Investors, LLC (‘‘GFB-AS’’), a subsidiary of BLC, the general partners of the 14 investing partnerships, which are alleged to be subsidiaries of GFB-AS, FIG, an affiliate of our largest stockholder, and our Chief Financial Officer. The nine count third amended complaint alleges, among other things, (i) that the defendants converted for their own use the property of the limited partners of 11 partnerships, including through the failure to obtain consents the plaintiffs contend were required for the sale of facilities indirectly owned by those partnerships to Ventas; (ii) that the defendants fraudulently persuaded the limited partners of three partnerships to give up a valuable property right based upon incomplete, false and misleading statements in connection with certain consent solicitations; (iii) that certain defendants, including GFB-AS, the general partners, and our Chief Fi nancial Officer, but not including the Company, BLC, or FIG, committed mail fraud in connection with the sale of facilities indirectly owned by the 14 partnerships at issue in the Action to 27 Table of Contents Ventas; (iv) that certain defendants, including GFB-AS and our Chief Financial Officer, but not including the Company, BLC, the general partners, or FIG, committed wire fraud in connection with certain communications with plaintiffs in the Action and another investor in a limited partnership; (v) that the defendants, with the exception of the Company, committed substantive violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (‘‘RICO’’); (vi) that the defendants conspired to violate RICO; (vii) that GFB-AS and the general partners violated the partnership agreements of the 14 investing partnerships; (viii) that GFB-AS, the general partners, and our Chief Financial Officer breached fiduciary duties to the plaintiffs; and (ix) that the defendants were unjustly enriched. The plaintiffs have asked for damages in excess of $100.0 million on each of the counts described above, including treble damages for the RICO claims. On April 18, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss the claims with prejudice, which remains pending before the court, and plan to continue to vigorously defend this Action. A putative class action lawsuit was also filed on March 22, 2006, by certain limited partners in four of the same partnerships involved in the Action in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware captioned Edith Zimmerman et al. v. GFB-AS Investors, LLC and Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. (the ‘‘Second Action’’). On November 21, 2006, an amended complaint was filed in the Second Action. The putative class in the Second Action consists only of those limited partners in the four investing partnerships who are not plaintiffs in the Action. The Second Action names as defendants BLC and GFB-AS. The complaint alleges a claim for breach of fiduciary duty arising out of the sale of facilities indirectly owned by the investing partnerships to Ventas and the subsequent lease of those facilities by Ventas t o subsidiaries of BLC. The plaintiffs seek, among other relief, an accounting, damages in an unspecified amount, and disgorgement of unspecified amounts by which the defendants were allegedly unjustly enriched. On December 12, 2006, we filed an answer denying the claim asserted in the amended complaint and providing affirmative defenses. On December 27, 2006, the plaintiffs moved to certify the Action as a class action. Both the plaintiffs and defendants have served document production requests and the Action is currently in the beginning stages of document discovery. We also intend to vigorously defend this Second Action. Because these actions are in an early stage we cannot estimate the possible range of loss, if any. In addition, we have been involved in other litigation and claims incidental to the conduct of our business which are comparable to other companies in the senior living industry. Certain claims and lawsuits allege large damage amounts and may require significant legal costs to defend and resolve. Similarly, our industry is continuously subject to scrutiny by governmental regulators, which could result in litigation related to regulatory compliance matters. As a result, we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles we believe are adequate, based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. Risks Related to Our Industry The cost and difficulty of complying with increasing and evolving regulation and enforcement could have an adverse effect on our business operations and profits. The regulatory environment surrounding the senior living industry continues to evolve and intensify in the amount and type of laws and regulations affecting it, many of which vary from state to state. In addition, many senior living facilities are subject to regulation and licensing by state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities. In several of the states in which we operate or may operate, we are prohibited from providing certain higher levels of senior care services without first obtaining the appropriate licenses. Also, in several of the states in which we operate or intend to operate, assisted living facilities and/or skilled nursing facilities require a certificate of need before the fac ility can be opened or the services at an existing facility can be expanded. Furthermore, federal, state and local officials are increasingly focusing their efforts on enforcement of these laws, particularly with respect to large for-profit, multi-facility providers like us. These requirements, and the increased enforcement thereof, could affect our ability to expand into new markets, to expand our services and facilities in existing markets and, if any of our presently licensed facilities were to operate outside of its licensing authority, may subject us to penalties including closure of the facility. Future regulatory developments as well as mandatory increases in the scope and severity of deficiencies 28 Table of Contents determined by survey or inspection officials could cause our operations to suffer. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local legislation or regulation. If regulatory requirements increase, whether through enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing rules, our earnings and operations could be adversely affected. The intensified regulatory and enforcement environment impacts providers like us because of the increase in the number of inspections or surveys by governmental authorities and consequent citations for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. We also expend considerable resources to respond to federal and state investigations or other enforcement action. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we receive deficiency reports from state and federal regulatory bodies resulting from such inspections or surveys. Although most inspection deficiencies are resolved through an agreed-to plan of corrective action, the reviewing agency typically has the authority to take further action against a licensed or certified faci lity, which could result in the imposition of fines, imposition of a provisional or conditional license, suspension or revocation of a license, suspension or denial of admissions, loss of certification as a provider under federal health care programs or imposition of other sanctions, including criminal penalties. Furthermore, certain states may allow citations in one facility to impact other facilities in the state. Revocation of a license at a given facility could therefore impact our ability to obtain new licenses or to renew existing licenses at other facilities, which may also cause us to be in default under our leases, trigger cross-defaults, trigger defaults under certain of our credit agreements or adversely affect our ability to operate and/or obtain financing in the future. If a state were to find that one facility’s citation would impact another of our facilities, this would also increase costs and result in increased surveillance by the state survey agency. To date, none of the deficiency re ports received by us has resulted in a suspension, fine or other disposition that has had a material adverse effect on our revenues. However, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements in the future could result in a material adverse effect to our business as a whole. There are various extremely complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referral relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by health care providers, including those in the senior living industry, and governmental agencies are devoting increasing attention and resources to such anti-fraud initiatives. Some examples are the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, and the False Claims Act, which gives private individuals the ability to bring an action on behalf of the federal government. The violation of any of these laws or regulations may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could increase our costs and otherwise jeopardize our business. Under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA 2005, every entity that receives at least $5 million annually in Medicaid payments must establish, by January 1, 2007, written policies for all employees, contractors or agents, providing detailed information about false claims, false statements and whistleblower protections under certain federal laws, including the federal False Claims Act, and similar state laws. Failure to comply with this new compliance requirement may potentially give rise to potential liability. DRA 2005 also creates an incentive for states to enact false claims laws that are comparable to the federal False Claims Act. Additionally, we provide services and operate facilities that participate in federal and/or state health care reimbursement programs, which makes us subject to federal and state laws that prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for reimbursement which are false, fraudulent or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Similar state laws vary from state to state and we cannot be sure that these laws will be interpreted consistently or in keeping with past practice. Violation of any of these laws can result in loss of licensure, civil or criminal penalties and exclusion of health care providers or suppliers from furnishing covered items or services to beneficiaries of the applicable fede ral and/or state health care reimbursement program. Loss of licensure may also cause us to default under our leases and/or trigger cross-defaults. We are also subject to certain federal and state laws that regulate financial arrangements by health care providers, such as the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark laws and certain state referral laws. Authorities have interpreted the Federal Anti-Kickback Law very broadly to apply to many practices and relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. This could result in criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from government 29 Table of Contents programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, which may also cause us to default under our leases and/or trigger cross-defaults. Adverse consequences may also result if we violate federal Stark laws related to certain Medicare and Medicaid physician referrals. While we endeavor to comply with all laws that regulate the licensure and operation of our business, it is difficult to predict how our revenues could be affected if we were subject to an action alleging such violations. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Fair Housing Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures, which could increase our costs and therefore adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. All of our facilities are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for ‘‘public accommodations’’ and ‘‘commercial properties,’’ but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of government fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We must also comply with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits us from discriminating against individuals on certain bases in any of our practices if it would cause such individuals to face barriers in gaining residency in any of our facilities. Additionally, the Fair Housing Act and other state laws require that we advertise our services in such a way that we promote diversity and not limit it. We may be required, among other things, to change our marketing techniques to comply with these requirements. In addition, we are required to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations and food licensing or certification requirements as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies from time to time. Like other health care facilities, senior living facilities are subject to periodic survey or inspection by governmental authorities to assess and assure compliance with regulatory requirements. Surveys occur on a regular (often annual or bi-annual) schedule, and special surveys may result from a specific complaint filed by a resident, a family member or one of our competitors. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply wi th those requirements. Capital expenditures we have made to comply with any of the above to date have been immaterial, however, the increased costs and capital expenditures that we may incur in order to comply with any of the above would result in a negative effect on our earnings, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Significant legal actions and liability claims against us in excess of insurance limits could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The senior living business entails an inherent risk of liability, particularly given the demographics of our residents, including age and health, and the services we provide. In recent years, we, as well as other participants in our industry, have been subject to an increasing number of claims and lawsuits alleging that our services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. Many of these lawsuits involve large damage claims and significant legal costs. Many states continue to consider tort reform and how it will apply to the senior living industry. We may continue to be faced with the threat of large jury verdicts in jurisdictions that do not find favor with large senior living providers. We maintain liability ins urance policies in amounts and with the coverage and deductibles we believe are adequate based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. We have formed a wholly-owned ‘‘captive’’ insurance company for the purpose of insuring certain portions of our risk retention under our general and professional liability insurance programs. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we did not have any claims that exceeded our policy limits. However, there can be no guarantee that we will not have such claims in the future. If a successful claim is made against us and it is not covered by our insurance or exceeds the policy limits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In some states, state law may prohibit or limit insurance coverage for the risk of punitive 30 Table of Contents damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation. As a result, we may be liable for punitive damage awards in these states that either are not covered or are in excess of our insurance policy limits. Also, the above deductibles, or self-insured retention, are accrued based on an actuarial projection of future liabilities. If these projections are inaccurate and if there are an unexpectedly large number of successful claims that result in liabilities in excess of our self-insured retention, our operating results could be negatively affected. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract residents or expand our business and could require our management to devote time to matters unrelated to the day-to-day operation of our business. We also have to renew our policies every year and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, includ ing the possibility of rate increases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future or, if available, that such coverage will be available on acceptable terms. Overbuilding, increased competition and increased operating costs may adversely affect our ability to generate and increase our revenues and profits and to pursue our growth strategy. The senior living industry is highly competitive, and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with numerous other companies that provide long-term care alternatives such as home healthcare agencies, therapy services, life care at home, facility-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other independent living, assisted living and skilled nursing providers, including not-for-profit entities. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent living and assisted living segments of the senior living industry are not substantial. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competition in our efforts to acquire and oper ate senior living facilities. Consequently, we may encounter increased competition that could limit our ability to attract new residents, raise resident fees or expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. In addition, overbuilding in the late 1990s in the senior living industry reduced the occupancy rates of many newly constructed buildings and, in some cases, reduced the monthly rate that some newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services. This resulted in lower revenues for certain of our facilities during that time. While we believe that overbuilt markets have stabilized and should continue to be stabilized for the immediate future, we cannot be certain that the effects of this period of overbuilding will not effect our occupancy and resident fee rate levels in the future, nor can we be certain that another period of overbuilding in the future will not have the same effects. Moreover, whil e we believe that the new construction dynamics and the competitive environments in the states in which we operate are substantially similar to the national market, taken as a whole, if the dynamics or environment were to be significantly adverse in one or more of those states, it would have a disproportionate effect on our revenues (due to the large portion of our revenues that are generated in those states). Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2006, funds managed by affiliates of Fortress beneficially own 61,007,867 shares, or approximately 60%, of our common stock. In addition, two of our directors are associated with Fortress. As a result, funds managed by affiliates of Fortress are able to control fundamental and significant corporate matters and transactions, including: the election of directors; mergers, consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws; and the dissolution of the Company. Fortress’s interests, including its ownership of the North American operations of Holiday Retirement Corp., may conflict with your interests. Their control of the Company could delay, deter or prevent acts that may be favored by our other stockholders such as hostile takeovers, changes in control of the Company and changes in management. As a result of such actions, the market price of our common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control of the Company. 31 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts, including: • a staggered board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each of whom serve three-year terms; • removal of directors only for cause, and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; • blank-check preferred stock; • provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws preventing stockholders from calling special meetings (with the exception of Fortress and its affiliates, so long as they collectively beneficially own at least 50.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock); • advance notice requirements for stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election. Additionally, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations, will not apply to us. This may make it easier for a third party to acquire an interest in some or all of us with Fortress’ approval, even though our other stockholders may not deem such an acquisition beneficial to their interests. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including paying dividends. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates; 32 Table of Contents • the contents of published research reports about us or the senior living industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • any increased indebtedness we may incur or lease obligations we may enter into in the future; • actions by institutional stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to the Company or the senior living industry in general; • increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the senior living industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and • general market and economic conditions. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering debt or additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, series of preferred shares or shares of our common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference with respect to liquidating distributions or a preference with respect to dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their share holdings in us. As of December 31, 2006, we had an aggregate of 92,569,559 shares of common stock authorized but unissued and not otherwise reserved for issuance under our stock incentive plans. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions of senior living facilities and may issue shares of common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Any shares issued in connection with our acquisitions, or otherwise would dilute the holdings of our current stockholders. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. At March 5, 2007, there are 101,306,148 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of the shares of our common stock are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our ‘‘affiliates,’’ as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or any shares otherwise subject to the limitations of Rule 144. Pursuant to our Stockholders Agreement, Fortress and certain of its related partnerships and permitted third-party transferees have the right, in certain circumstances, to require us to register their shares of our common stock under the Securities Act for sale into the public markets. Upon the effectiveness of such a registration statement, all shares covered by the registration statement will be freely transferable. 33 Table of Contents In addition, following the completion of our initial public offering, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock incentive programs. In accordance with the terms of the Plan, the number of shares available for issuance increased by 400,000 shares on each of January 1, 2006 and January 1, 2007. On June 14, 2006, in connection with the initial 400,000 share increase and the shares we planned to issue to certain officers and employees of ARC in connection with the ARC Merger, we filed an amendment to our registration statement on Form S-8 to register an additional 2,900,000 shares of our common stoc k to be reserved for issuance under our stock incentive programs. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the shares and options granted under our stock incentive programs, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 and on the amendment to Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock if Fortress, our largest stockholder, defaults under credit agreements secured by its holdings of shares of our common stock. On June 28, 2006, Fortress informed us of the following: Two affiliates of Fortress, FRIT Holdings LLC and FIT Holdings LLC entered into separate credit agreements, both dated June 28, 2006, with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, or Deutsche Bank, as Administrative Agent and sole lender. Pursuant to these credit agreements, the affiliates have received an aggregate commitment of approximately $1.43 billion from Deutsche Bank, and this amount has been secured by, among other things, a pledge by the borrowers and one other affiliate of Fortress of a total of 40,628,000 shares of our common stock owned by such affiliates. The 40,628,000 shares of common stock represented approximately 61% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of June 28, 2006, and approximately 40% as of Decemb er 31, 2006. The credit agreements contain customary default provisions and also require prepayment or cash collateralization of a portion of the borrowings by the borrowers in the event the trading price of our common stock decreases below certain specified levels. In the event of a default under the credit agreements by the borrowers, Deutsche Bank may foreclose upon any and all shares of our common stock pledged to it. The sale of these pledged shares by the affiliates of Fortress in the event of a default could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. The borrowers have agreed in the credit agreements that if a shelf registration statement is not effective and usable for resale of any portion of the pledged common stock by Deutsche Bank (in the event of foreclosure) as of June 9, 2007, the applicable affiliate will prepay or cash-collateralize a related portion of the borrowings. We have also agreed in the credit agreements that if RIC Coinvestment Fund LP or any of its affiliates sell any shares of common stock received pursuant to the Investment Agreement the borrowers will prepay or cash-collateralize a related portion of the borrowings. In connection with our obligations under the Stockholders Agreement, we received a request from Fortress to file a registration statement on Form S-3 to permit the registration of the sale of up to 40,628,000 shares of common stock that Fortress or certain of its affiliates have pledged as collateral in connection with the credit agreements. We filed the registration statement on Form S-3 on December 21, 2006. We are not a party to the credit agreements and have no obligations thereunder. Wesley R. Edens, the Chairman of our board of directors, owns an interest in Fortress and is the Chairman of its Management Committee. William B. Doniger, the Vice Chairman of our board of directors, is a managing director of Fortress. Fluctuation of market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the value of your investment in our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common stock is our dividend payment per share as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher rate of return on our 34 Table of Contents common stock and therefore may seek securities paying higher dividends or interest or offering a higher rate of return than shares of our common stock. As a result, market interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions can affect the demand for and market value of our common stock. For instance, if interest rates rise, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will decrease, because current stockholders and potential investors will likely require a higher dividend yield and rate of return on our common stock as interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, offer more attractive returns. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 