ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below before you decide to invest in our common stock. You should also refer to the other information in this annual report, including our financial statements and related notes If any of the following risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be severely harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our loan portfolio and investments in marketable securities subject us to credit risk. Inherent risks in lending also include the inability to compete with other lenders, fluctuations in interest rates and collateral values, principally real estate, and economic downturns. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. There is no precise method of determining loan losses, and therefore, we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Such increases could be the result of various factors, including changes in the value of collateral securing our loans or additional reserves required by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC. Additions to our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to grow our assets. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers and any significant loss on any of these loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers. Under applicable law, we are generally permitted to make loans to one borrowing relationship up to 15.0% of our capital and surplus (after a number of positive and negative regulatory adjustments, including the netting off of intangibles). As of December 31, 2005, our legal lending limit for one borrower was approximately $20.9 million. In addition to this limit, we may loan an additional 10.0% of our capital and surplus (for a total of 25.0%) if the amount in excess of the 15.0% limit is fully secured by readily marketable collateral, as defined by the applicable OCC regulations. Historically, we have operated with an internal limit that is below our legal lending limit. Our largest exposure to one borrowing relationship as of December 31, 2005, was $14.6 million, which is 10.5% of State National Bank’s capital and surplus, as of that date. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, our aggregate exposure to our 10 largest borrowing relationships was approximately $105.3 million, which was 75.6% of State National Bank’s capital and surplus, as of that date. Given the size of these loan relationships relative to our capital levels and earnings, a significant loss on any one of these loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2005, approximately 63.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that we would be required to increase our provision for loan losses. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase our allowance for loan losses, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents We have experienced growth through acquisitions which we may not be able to sustain, and an unsuccessful attempt to implement our growth strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We have expanded our business through acquisitions, attracting new customers, providing new services to existing customers, adding new business lines and increasing our deposit base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue this trend, or that future acquisitions will always be profitable. In addition, we believe that it will become more difficult to maintain sustained growth as we increase in size. Our ability to implement our strategy for continued growth depends on our ability to continue to identify and integrate profitable acquisition targets, our ability to attract and retain customers in a highly competitive market, the growth of those customers’ businesses and our ability to increase our deposit base. Our inability to meet any of these growth prerequisites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects by limiting or reducing the size and quality of our assets. An economic downturn or a natural disaster, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Because most of our business activities are conducted in Texas and New Mexico and most of our credit exposure is in those states, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments, including a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural hazards such as floods and tornadoes that affect Texas or New Mexico. If the Texas or New Mexico economies experience an overall decline as a result of these adverse developments or natural hazards, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses on loan portfolios would probably increase substantially. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans could be adversely affected by an economic downturn or a natural disaster. An economic downturn or a natural disaster could, therefore, result in losses that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Competition from other financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S. banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. We expect to encounter greater competition as we expand our operations in Tarrant County, as this is an attractive market for financial institutions. A number of institutions with which we compete have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. This competition may also limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations which could result in a decrease in our net income. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2005, we were in an asset sensitive position, meaning that our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities. Thus, a decline in interest rates could result in a decrease in our net income. Fluctuations of interest rates are affected by, among other factors, changes in inflation rates, levels of business activity, unemployment levels, monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, money supply and domestic and foreign financial markets. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of existing senior management and, as we expand, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. Tom C. Nichols, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, has been instrumental in managing our business affairs. Our other senior executive officers have had, and will continue to have, a significant role in the development 20 Table of Contents and management of our business. The loss of services of Mr. Nichols or any of our other executive officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Accordingly, should we lose the services of any member of our senior management, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of our company for a qualified permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that we will be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement. Our second largest shareholder is a registered bank holding company and the activities and regulation of such shareholder may adversely affect our permissible activities. Castle Creek Capital, LLC, which is controlled by John M. Eggemeyer, beneficially owned approximately 15.7% of our common stock as of December 31, 2005. Due to its ownership of our common stock, Castle Creek Capital, LLC is a registered bank holding company for State National Bank under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Thus, Castle Creek Capital, LLC must obtain separate regulatory approval before we can engage in a number of activities, including acquisitions. If the Federal Reserve Board determines that Castle Creek Capital, LLC, or any other company in which Castle Creek Capital, LLC has invested, has engaged in any unsafe or unsound banking practices or activities, we may be prevented from engaging in a number of activities, including certain acquisitions and de novo banking center expansion. For this reason, regulation of Castle Creek Capital, LLC by the Federal Reserve Board may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, our management will be required to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with this effort we will likely incur increased expenses and diversion of management’s time and other internal resources. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process by our independent auditors, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock and Our Initial Public Offering The sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by our shareholders after the expiration of lock-up agreements associated with our initial public offering may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may decline if our current shareholders sell shares of our common stock. Holders of 4,912,631 shares of our common stock remain subject to lock-up agreements in connection with our initial public offering. Under these lock-up agreements, our shareholders have agreed, subject to certain limited exceptions, not to sell any shares of our common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock) owned by them for a period of 180 days after the closing of our initial public offering, or until April 2, 2006, unless they first obtain the written consent of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. At the end of such 180-day period, which may be extended under certain circumstances, approximately 4,912,631 shares of common stock will be eligible for immediate resale subject to the applicable provisions under Rule 144. The sale of shares of our common stock by our shareholders after the expiration of these lock-up agreements on April 2, 2006 may cause the price of our common stock to decline. 21 Table of Contents The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. On July 31, 2001, we issued $22.7 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures in connection with a $22.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, State National Statutory Trust I. The 2001 junior subordinated debentures mature in July of 2031. On July 14, 2003, we issued an additional $15.5 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures in connection with a $15.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, State National Capital Trust I. The 2003 junior subordinated debentures mature in September of 2033. On March 17, 2004, we issued an additional $10.3 million of floating rate junior subordinated debentures in connection with a $10.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, State National Statutory Trust II. The 2004 junior subordinated debentures mature in March of 2034. The purpose of these transactions was to raise additional capital for us and State National Bank, including to fund a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of Mercantile. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. The 2001, 2003, and 2004 junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the 2001, 2003, and 2004 junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock. Our management owns a significant number of shares of our common stock, allowing management further control over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 1,495,763 shares, or 12.49%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, in addition to their day-to-day management roles, our executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant influence on our business as shareholders, including influence over election of members of our Board of Directors and the authorization of other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include, among others, requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at shareholders’ meetings and authorizing preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may issue, in its sole discretion and without shareholder approval, one or more series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including convertible securities with no limitation on conversion, as our Board of Directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to our common stock. Also, we are subject to the provisions of the Texas Business Combination Law, which provides that we may not engage in certain business combinations with an “affiliated shareholder” (generally defined as the holder of 20.0% or more of the corporation’s voting shares) for a period of three years from the date such person became an affiliated shareholder unless: (1) the business combination or purchase or acquisition of shares made by the affiliated shareholder was approved by our Board of Directors before the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder or (2) the business combination was approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting shares not beneficially owned by the affiliated shareholder, at a meeting of shareholders called for that purpose (and not by written consent), not less than six months after the affiliated shareholder became an affiliated shareholder. The Texas Business Combination Law may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination involving us, even if such event would be beneficial to our shareholders. Any individual, acting alone or with other individuals, who is seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly, 10.0% or more of our outstanding common stock must comply with the Change in Bank Control Act, which requires prior notice to the Federal Reserve Board for any acquisition. Additionally, any entity that wants to acquire 5.0% or more of our outstanding common stock, or otherwise to control us, may need to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Approval for an acquisition may also be required by the OCC. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole opportunity for gains on your investment for the foreseeable future. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than State National Bank, we have no material source of income other than dividends that we receive from State National Bank. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on State National Bank’s ability to pay dividends to us. Moreover, banks and bank holding companies are both subject to certain federal and state regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We are also restricted from paying dividends on our common stock if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our junior subordinated debentures. In addition, while we began paying quarterly dividends in 2006, the primary use of our earnings, if any, will be for working capital, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business. ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 