Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to implement our expansion strategy as planned or at all. We plan to grow our business by investing in new or existing ethanol plants. We have three operational ethanol plants and five ethanol plants under construction. These plants are in various stages of construction, with commencement of operations scheduled in 2007 and 2008. Development, construction and expansion of ethanol plants is subject to a number of risks, any of which could prevent us from commencing operations at a particular plant as expected or at all, including zoning and permitting matters, adverse weather, defects in materials and workmanship, labor and material shortages, transportation constraints, construction change orders, site changes, workforce issues, the availability of sufficient quantities of water of suitable quality and other unforeseen difficulties. For example, a lawsuit is currently pending against our joint venture partner in the Grinnell project, and certain other defendants, including the county zoning board, challenging a decision to rezone the land intended for the Grinnell facility to permit construction of an ethanol plant. Construction in the upper Midwest, where many of our projects are located, can also be particularly difficult in the winter because of delays related to adverse weather. In addition, during the expansion of an existing facility, we may be forced to suspend or curtail our operations at such facility, which would decrease our ethanol production and reduce our revenues. As of December 31, 2006, our cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing and committed facilities were not sufficient to fully fund the construction costs of our plants under construction. However, in February 2007, we entered into credit facilities with AgStar to provide funding for our Ord, Hankinson, Dyersville and Janesville construction projects. As of December 31, 2006, total construction costs to complete these plants are expected to be approximately $452.2 million, of which we anticipate funding approximately $161.0 million with cash on hand and cash generated from operations. At this time Grinnell has not entered into a credit facility to construct its ethanol plant, therefore, we do not plan to undertake significant construction until the pending lawsuits are satisfactorily resolved and a credit facility is obtained. To the extent that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient, additional financing will be required to fully fund future construction projects. We may not have access to required financing or such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to finance the expansion of our business in part with additional indebtedness and may also do so by issuing additional equity securities. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness, such as reducing our liquidity and access to financial markets and increasing the amount of cash 10 Table of Contents flow required to service such indebtedness, or associated with issuing additional equity, such as dilution of ownership and earnings. We face additional risks associated with financing our expansion strategy due to the significant limitations imposed on our ability to incur or service additional debt or grant security interests on our assets contained in our existing debt financing agreements. The significant expansion of ethanol production capacity currently underway in the U.S. may also impede our expansion strategy. As a result of this expansion, we believe that there is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants, and we may not find suitable sites for construction of new facilities or other suitable expansion opportunities. Even if we are able to identify suitable sites or opportunities, we may not be able to secure the services and products from the contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build our ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Our expansion strategy is particularly dependent on the continued availability of construction and engineering services provided to us by Fagen, Inc., an entity controlled by one of our principal shareholders, Ron Fagen. We believe that Fagen has constructed over 65% of the ethanol production capacity built in the U.S. over the past six years. Although we have entered into design-build agreements with Fagen, Inc. for each of our facilities under construction, including our Grinnell facility, and master design-build agreements with Fagen that provides additional build slots through 2010, if Fagen fails to perform under those agreements, our ability to meet our expansion goals would be limited. Fagen has also entered into design-build contracts with other parties seeking to build ethanol plants and has invested and may continue to invest in other ethanol producers. As a result, Fagen, Inc. may have a conflict of interest in performing its obligations under its design-build agreements with us which could delay or prevent our expansion strategy. We must also obtain numerous regulatory approvals and permits in order to construct and operate additional or expanded facilities. These requirements may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Our exposure to permitting risks may be exacerbated because for certain of our projects we may begin construction and incur substantial costs without first obtaining all permits necessary to operate an ethanol plant at that site. In the event that we fail to ultimately obtain all necessary permits, we would be forced to abandon the project and lose the benefit of any construction costs already incurred. In addition, federal and state governmental requirements may substantially increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our significant expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing plants and other businesses. Accordingly, we may not be able to implement our expansion strategy as planned or at all. We may not find additional appropriate sites for new facilities, and we may not be able to finance, construct, develop or operate these new or expanded facilities successfully. We generally do not have long-term sales, input or throughput contracts, which makes our business highly dependent on commodity prices. These prices are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, so our results could fluctuate significantly. We generally do not have long-term contracts for the purchase of corn and natural gas, our principal inputs, or for the sale of ethanol, our principal product. Therefore, our results of operations, financial position and business outlook will be substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. Prices for these commodities are generally subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. As a result, our future results may fluctuate substantially, and we may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which could result in continued operating losses. We may attempt to offset a portion of the effects of such fluctuations by entering into forward contracts to supply ethanol or to purchase corn, natural gas or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts, but these activities involve substantial costs and substantial risks and may be ineffective to mitigate these fluctuations. 11 Table of Contents The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and during 2006 was at historically high levels. Our gross margins depend principally on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. During the five-year period from 2002 to 2006, ethanol prices (based on price data from Bloomberg, L.P., or Bloomberg) have ranged from a low of $0.91 per gallon to a high of $3.95 per gallon, averaging $1.65 per gallon during this period. During most of 2006, the spread between ethanol and corn prices was at historically high levels, driven in large part by high oil prices and historically low corn prices. Toward the end of 2006 and in recent months however, the price of ethanol has been declining and the cost of corn has been rising. On June 30, 2006, the Chicago spot price per gallon of ethanol was $3.90, whereas on December 29, 2006, the Chicago spot price per gallon of ethanol was $2.45. The spread between the price of a gallon of ethanol and the cost of the amount of corn required to produce a gallon of ethanol will continue to fluctuate. Any reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of an increase in corn prices or a reduction in ethanol prices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is highly sensitive to corn prices, and we generally cannot pass on increases in corn prices to our customers. Corn is the principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and distillers grains. Because ethanol competes with fuels that are not corn-based, we generally are unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customers, and accordingly, rising corn prices tend to produce lower profit margins. At certain levels, corn prices would make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions (including droughts) and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors, including government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local supply and demand. The price of corn has fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. For example, over the eleven-year period from 1996 through 2006, corn prices (based on Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, daily futures data) have ranged from a low of $1.75 per bushel in 2000 to a high of $5.48 per bushel in 1996, with prices averaging $2.45 per bushel during this period. On December 29, 2006, the CBOT price of corn was $3.90 per bushel. In addition, increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost demand for corn and result in increased corn prices. In 2005, corn bought by ethanol plants represented approximately 13% of the total corn supply for that year according to results reported by the National Corn Growers Association, and this percentage is expected to increase as additional ethanol capacity comes online. At a more local level, the price we pay for corn at any of our production facilities could also increase if another ethanol production facility were built in the same general vicinity or if we expand the production facility. We may also have difficulty from time to time in purchasing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. Any supply shortage could require us to suspend operations until corn became available at economical terms. Suspension of operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market for natural gas is subject to market conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that we utilize in the ethanol manufacturing process. We rely upon third-parties for our supply of natural gas which is consumed in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. The fluctuations in natural gas prices over the five-year period from 2002 through 2006, based on New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc., or NYMEX, daily futures data, has ranged from a low of $1.91 per MMBTU, in 2002 to a high of $15.38 per MMBTU in 2005, averaging $6.21 per MMBTU during this period. On December 29, 2006, the NYMEX price of natural gas was $6.30 per MMBTU. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control such as weather conditions (including hurricanes), overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Further, increases in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline may reduce our profit margins. Ethanol is marketed both as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline and as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our business, future results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. The price of distillers grains is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grains. Distillers grains compete with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grains may decrease when the price of competing feed products decrease. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which they are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grains. Because the price of distillers grains is not tied to production costs, decreases in the price of distillers grains will result in us generating less revenue and lower profit margins. We sold $11.3 million of distillers grains for the period beginning May 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2006. Platte Valley sold $3.3 million and $9.7 million of distillers grains for the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending April 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Currently, we produce modified wet distillers grains that contain 55% moisture at our Platte Valley facility, which historically sells at a lower price per ton than dried distillers grains that contain 10% moisture and typically have a longer shelf life than that of modified wet distillers grains. Our Woodbury facility produces both modified wet and dried distillers grains. Our Albert City facility produces both wet and dried distillers grains. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary operating inputs, corn and natural gas, and the price of our primary product, ethanol. In recent years, the spot price of corn tended to rise during the spring planting season in May and June and tended to decrease during the fall harvest in October and November. The price for natural gas however, tends to move opposite of corn and tends to be lower in the spring and summer and higher in the fall and winter. In addition, our ethanol prices are substantially correlated with the price of unleaded gasoline. The price of unleaded gasoline tends to rise during the summer. Given our limited history, we do not know yet how these seasonal fluctuations will affect our results over time. The use and demand for ethanol and its supply are highly dependent on various federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in legislation or regulation could cause the demand for ethanol to decline or its supply to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various federal and state laws, regulations and programs have led to increased use of ethanol in fuel. For example, certain laws, regulations and programs provide economic incentives to ethanol producers and users. Further, tariffs generally apply to the import of ethanol from other countries. These laws, regulations and programs are constantly changing. Federal and state legislators and environmental regulators could adopt or modify laws, regulations or programs that could adversely affect the use of ethanol. In addition, certain state legislatures oppose the use of ethanol because they must ship ethanol in from other corn-producing states, which could significantly increase gasoline prices in the state. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal ethanol tax incentive or the elimination or expiration of other federal or state incentive programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cost of producing ethanol has historically been significantly higher than the market price of gasoline. The production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline because of federal tax 13 Table of Contents incentives. Before January 1, 2005, the federal excise tax incentive program allowed gasoline distributors who blended ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sold. If the fuel was blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer paid $0.052 per gallon less tax, which equated to an incentive of $0.52 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.52 per gallon incentive for ethanol was reduced to $0.51 per gallon in 2005 and is scheduled to expire (unless extended) in 2010. The federal ethanol tax incentives may not be renewed in 2010 or they may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the federal ethanol tax incentives, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. We may also receive benefits from other federal and state incentive programs. For example, historically, our Platte Valley facility has received incentive payments to produce ethanol from the United States Department of Agriculture, or USDA, under its Commodity Credit Corporation Bioenergy Program and from the State of Nebraska under its motor vehicle fuel tax credit program. Under these programs, Platte Valley received payments of approximately $8.2 million and $5.1 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively. The USDA program expired on June 30, 2006, and existing or future incentive programs may also expire or be eliminated. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal ethanol tax incentive or other programs benefiting ethanol could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The effect of the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS, in the recent Energy Policy Act of 2005 on the ethanol industry is uncertain. The use of fuel oxygenates, including ethanol, was mandated through regulation, and much of the forecasted growth in demand for ethanol was expected to result from additional mandated use of oxygenates. Most of this growth was projected to occur in the next few years as the remaining markets switch from MTBE to ethanol. The recently enacted energy bill, however, eliminated the mandated use of oxygenates and instead established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels (ethanol, biodiesel or any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas) to be included in gasoline. Because biodiesel and other renewable fuels in addition to ethanol are counted toward the minimum usage requirements of the RFS, the elimination of the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline may result in a decline in ethanol consumption, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The legislation also included provisions for trading of credits for use of renewable fuels and authorized potential reductions in the RFS minimum by action of a governmental administrator. In addition, the rules for implementation of the RFS and the energy bill are still under development. The legislation did not include MTBE liability protection sought by refiners, and, in light of the risks of environmental litigation, many ethanol producers have anticipated that this will result in accelerated removal of MTBE and increased demand for ethanol. Refineries may use other possible replacement additives, such as iso-octane, iso-octene or alkylate. Accordingly, the actual demand for ethanol may increase at a lower rate than production for anticipated demand, resulting in excess production capacity in our industry, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Tariffs effectively limit imported ethanol into the U.S., and their reduction or elimination could undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol incentive available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. There is, however, a special exemption from this tariff for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. ethanol production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants in development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell our ethanol. 14 Table of Contents We do not know the extent to which the volume of imports would increase or the effect on U.S. prices for ethanol if the tariff is not renewed beyond its current expiration date in January 2009. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the U.S. Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. EPA, determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switch grass or wheat grain. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. As more ethanol plants are built, ethanol production will increase and, if demand does not sufficiently increase, the price of ethanol and distillers grains may decrease. According to the RFA, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased steadily from 1.7 billion gallons per year in January of 1999 to 5.6 billion gallons per year in March 2007. In addition, there is a significant amount of capacity being added to the ethanol industry. According to the RFA, as of December 2006, approximately 6.4 billion gallons per year of production capacity, an increase of 114% over current production levels, is currently under construction at 80 new and existing facilities. This capacity is being added to address anticipated increases in demand. However, demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected or to a level that exceeds supply, or at all. If the ethanol industry has excess capacity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Excess ethanol production capacity also may result from decreases in the demand for ethanol or increased imported supply, which could result from a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced gasoline consumption in the U.S. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage, or as a result of technological advances, such as the commercialization of engines utilizing hydrogen fuel-cells, which could supplant gasoline-powered engines. There are a number of governmental initiatives designed to reduce gasoline consumption, including tax credits for hybrid vehicles and consumer education programs. There is some evidence that reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the recent past as gasoline prices have increased in the U.S. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains. An increase in the supply of distillers grains, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our distillers grain production. A decline in the price of distillers grain or the distillers grain market generally could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We face intense competition from competing ethanol and other fuel additive producers. Competition in the ethanol industry is intense. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business from established producers of ethanol, including Archer Daniels Midland Company and Cargill, Inc., and from other companies that are seeking to develop large-scale ethanol plants and alliances. According to the RFA, as of December 2006, the top ten producers accounted for approximately 44% of the ethanol production capacity in the U.S., and based on the nameplate capacity of our Platte Valley, Woodbury, and Albert City facilities, we accounted for 4.4% of the ethanol production capacity in the U.S. A number of our competitors are divisions of substantially larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Smaller competitors also pose a threat. Farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry. These smaller competitors operate smaller facilities which may not affect the local price of corn grown in the proximity to the facility as much as larger facilities like ours affect these prices. In addition, many of these smaller competitors are farmer-owned and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a requirement of ownership. A significant portion of production capacity in our industry consists of smaller-sized facilities. We expect competition to increase as the ethanol industry becomes more widely known and demand for ethanol increases. Most new ethanol plants in development across the country are independently owned. In addition, various investors could heavily invest in ethanol production facilities and oversupply ethanol, resulting in higher raw material costs and lower ethanol price levels that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Although there is a tariff on foreign-produced ethanol (which is scheduled to expire in 2009) that is roughly equivalent to the federal ethanol tax incentive, ethanol imports equivalent to up to 7.0% of total domestic production from certain countries were exempted from this tariff under the Caribbean Basin Initiative to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that may be substantially lower than ours. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to attempt to compete more effectively, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a limited operating history and a history of losses, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. We were incorporated in October 2004 and did not engage in any revenue producing activities until we acquired United Bio Energy, LLC on May 1, 2005. On April 30, 2006, we acquired our first operating ethanol plant and in May 2006, began recording revenues from our ethanol production activity. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history from which you can evaluate our business and prospects. For the period from October 28, 2004 (inception) through December 31, 2004, and for the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred losses of $54,000 and $4.2 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006 we recorded net income of $20.4 million. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by an early-stage company and in rapidly evolving conditions, such as the ethanol market, where supply and demand may change significantly in a short amount of time. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • effectively manage our business and operations; • recruit and retain key personnel; • successfully maintain our low-cost structure as we expand the scale of our business; • manage rapid growth in personnel and operations; • develop new products that complement our existing business; and • successfully address the other risks described throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 Table of Contents If we cannot successfully address these risks, our business, future results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, and we may continue to incur operating losses in the future. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to find and integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of other businesses, building sites, production facilities, storage or distribution facilities and selected infrastructure. There is no assurance, however, that we will determine to pursue any of these opportunities or that if we determine to pursue them that we will be successful. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting processes and workforce of the target and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company or assets; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets or areas in which we have limited or no experience or are outside our core competencies; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the business of the target; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the products of the target; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. We also may pursue acquisitions through joint ventures or partnerships. Partnerships and joint ventures typically involve restrictions on actions that the partnership or joint venture may take without the approval of the partners. These types of provisions may limit our ability to manage a partnership or joint venture in a manner that is in our best interest but is opposed by our other partner or partners. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment or in connection with financing the business or assets acquired, and as a result, could dilute the ownership interests of current stockholders. In addition, consummating these transactions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or otherwise adequately address the risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes in and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure by persons and entities outside our control will be required for our operations, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: • additional rail capacity; • additional storage facilities for ethanol; • increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; 17 Table of Contents • expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol; • growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels; and • growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles capable of using e85 fuel. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes in or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our products, impede our delivery of products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We engage in hedging transactions which involve risks that can harm our business. In an attempt to offset some of the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and costs of commodities, we may enter into cash fixed-price contracts to sell a portion of our ethanol and distillers grains production or purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements. We may use exchange-traded futures contracts and options to manage commodity risk. The impact of these activities depends upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Hedging activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. A hedge position is often settled in the same time frame as the physical commodity is either purchased (corn and natural gas) or sold (ethanol). We may experience hedging losses in the future. We also vary the amount of hedging or other price mitigation strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol. Operational difficulties at our plants could negatively impact our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Our operations are subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime and other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or we may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, our plants may not operate as planned or expected. All of our plants have or will have a specified nameplate capacity which represents the production capacity specified in the applicable design-build agreement. The builder generally tests the capacity of the plant during the start of its operations. But based on our experience in operating similar plants, we generally expect our plants to produce in excess of their nameplate capacity. The operation of our plants is and will be, however, subject to various uncertainties relating to our ability to implement the necessary process improvements required to achieve these increased production capacities. As a result, our plants may not produce ethanol and distillers grains at the levels we expect. In the event any of our plants do not run at their nameplate or our increased expected capacity levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are or will become subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In particular, each ethanol plant we intend to operate will be subject to environmental regulation by the state in which the plant is located and by the EPA. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts on the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, to construct and operate our ethanol plants, we will need to obtain and comply with a number of permit requirements. As a condition to granting necessary permits, regulators could make demands that increase our costs of construction and operations, in which case we could be forced to obtain additional debt or equity capital. For example, we are currently facing increased construction costs for our Janesville, Minnesota project in order to meet unanticipated water discharge requirements and expect to incur additional construction costs of approximately $5 to $6 million in order to meet these requirements. Permit conditions could also restrict or limit the extent of our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary permits to construct our ethanol plants. Failure to obtain and comply with all applicable permits and licenses could halt our construction and could subject us to future claims. Environmental issues, such as contamination and compliance with applicable environmental standards could arise at any time during the construction and operation of our ethanol plants. If this occurs, it would require us to spend significant resources to remedy the issues and may delay or prevent construction or operation of our ethanol plants. This would significantly increase the cost of these projects. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the CERCLA or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties, including our employees and property owners or residents near our plants, alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those plants. Additionally, employees, property owners or residents near our ethanol plants could object to the air emissions or water discharges from our ethanol plants. Ethanol production has been known to produce an unpleasant odor. Environmental and public nuisance claims or toxic tort claims could be brought against us as a result of this odor or our other releases to the air or water. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant resources for investigation, cleanup, installation of control technologies or other compliance-related items, or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. For example, federal and state environmental authorities have recently been investigating alleged excess volatile organic compounds and other air emissions from certain U.S. ethanol plants. Present and future environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims by third-parties or damage to property owned by us or by third-parties. As protection against operating hazards, we intend to maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured events, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury to third-parties or damage to property owned by us or third-parties or other 19 Table of Contents losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not own or control some of the assets we depend on to operate our business. We are generally contractually obligated to sell 100% of the ethanol we produce at all of our existing and future plants to Provista, an entity in which we only own a 50% equity interest. The other 50% is owned by CHS, Inc. Provista is governed by an amended and restated operating agreement, which provides for the designation of a manager to manage its business and affairs. Pursuant to the amended and restated operating agreement and the related management agreement, we, along with CHS, designated CHS as the manager of Provista. The management agreement provides CHS with broad authority to manage the business of Provista, subject to certain actions that CHS may not take without prior written approval of Provista. Because we do not manage Provista, our ability to control the marketing of our ethanol is limited, and we may be prevented from taking actions with respect to the marketing of our ethanol that we believe to be in our own best interests. In addition, Provista leases approximately 1,035 railcars and employs the personnel upon which we rely to sell our ethanol. Our marketing agreement with Provista has an initial term through November 30, 2007, and thereafter will automatically renew for one-year additional terms, unless either party provides the other with ninety days written notice of non-renewal. Moreover, pursuant to the amended and restated operating agreement, beginning on April 1, 2009, either member of Provista may initiate a buy-sell mechanism. Under this mechanism, after receiving notice of the initiation of the buy-sell mechanism, the non-initiating member must elect to either sell all of its interests in Provista to the initiating member or purchase all of the initiating member’s interest in Provista, in each case, at a purchase price not less than a specified multiple of Provista’s EBITDA. If our marketing agreement with Provista is terminated, or if we lose all of our interests in Provista pursuant to the buy-sell mechanism, we may be unable to obtain replacement third-party marketing services on similar terms or at all or to acquire the railcars and develop the necessary internal resources to market our ethanol directly, and as a result, any such termination or loss of all of our interests in Provista could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in connection with the development of future ethanol plants, we may enter into joint venture arrangements with third-party entities to own and operate such facilities. For example, we recently formed a joint venture with Big River Resources, LLC to construct a 100 mmgy ethanol plant near Grinnell, Iowa. Under the terms of this arrangement we will each own 50% of the entity that will own the facility. If we own less than 100% of the entities that operate certain of our ethanol plants, we may be limited in our ability to operate the plant in a manner that maximizes benefits for us. As we expand our ethanol production business, we may become limited in our ability to provide services to third-party ethanol producers. We provide ethanol and distillers grains marketing, grain procurement, risk consulting and facilities management services to third-party ethanol producers. In the past, our services business was our sole source of revenue. As we expand our ethanol production business, third-party ethanol producers may desire to terminate their existing service arrangements with us due to competitive concerns. Similarly, it may become more difficult for us to attract new customers to our services business. If existing customers terminate their arrangements with us, or if potential customers increasingly refuse to engage our services, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions to infrastructure, or in the supply of fuel, natural gas or water, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely upon third-parties to maintain the rail lines from our plants to the national rail network, and any failure on their part to maintain the lines could impede our delivery of products, impose additional 20 Table of Contents costs on us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business also depends on the continuing availability of raw materials, including fuel and natural gas. The production of ethanol, from the planting of corn to the distribution of ethanol to refiners, is highly energy-intensive. Significant amounts of fuel and natural gas are required for the growing, fertilizing and harvesting of corn, as well as for the fermentation, distillation and transportation of ethanol and the drying of distillers grains. A serious disruption in supplies of fuel or natural gas, including as a result of delivery curtailments to industrial customers due to extremely cold weather, or significant increases in the prices of fuel or natural gas, could significantly reduce the availability of raw materials at our production facilities, increase our production costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ethanol production facilities also require a significant and uninterrupted supply of water of suitable quality to operate. If there is an interruption in the supply of water for any reason, we may be required to halt production at one or more of our ethanol production facilities. If production is halted at one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial condition and results of operations. We did not engage in any revenue producing activities from our inception on October 28, 2004 until we acquired UBE on May 1, 2005. As a result, our results of operations for periods subsequent to our acquisition of UBE are not comparable to our results of operations for prior periods. We also did not produce any ethanol during 2004 or 2005, and all of our revenue producing operating results during 2005 were attributable to the conduct of our services business after the consummation of the UBE acquisition on May 1, 2005. We acquired our first operating ethanol plant, Platte Valley, on April 30, 2006, and effective May 1, 2006, we began recognizing revenue from the production of ethanol. As a result, our results of operations for periods subsequent to our acquisition of Platte Valley are not comparable to our results of operations for prior periods. Moreover, in September 2006, our Woodbury facility began its operations. In November 2006, we completed the expansion of our Platte Valley facility and in December 2006, we began production at our Albert City facility. We currently have five other plants under construction. As a result of the expansion of our ethanol production business, we expect that the primary source of our future revenue will be the sale of ethanol and distillers grains. To the extent we acquire or develop additional production capacity, the comparability of our results of operations will be further limited. Accordingly, our historical financial information and financial information for periods in which we experience a significant expansion of our ethanol production capacity may be of limited use in evaluating our financial performance and comparing it to other periods. Our management’s time and attention will be divided among our ethanol plants, and our ethanol plants will be part of one common management strategy. Our business model calls for us to form wholly-owned business entities to own each of our ethanol plants, which will be managed by a centralized management team. The demands on our management’s time from one ethanol plant may, from time to time, compete with the time and attention required for the operation of other ethanol plants. This division of our management’s time and attention among our ethanol plants may make it difficult for us to realize the maximum return from any one plant. Further, to reduce expenses and create efficiencies, we intend to manage each of our ethanol plants in a similar manner. This common management strategy may also result in difficulties in achieving the maximum return from any one plant. If our common management strategy is not successful or if we are not able to address the unique challenges of each ethanol plant, the impact of this arrangement likely will be spread among all of our ethanol plants, resulting in greater potential harm to our business than if each ethanol plant were operated independently. 21 Table of Contents Competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry is intense and we may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. For each of our plants, we must hire qualified managers, engineers, operations and other personnel, which can be challenging in a rural community. Competition for both managers and plant employees in the ethanol industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and maintain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and maintain productive and competent personnel, our expansion strategy may be adversely affected, the amount of ethanol we produce may decrease and we may not be able to efficiently operate our ethanol plants and execute our business strategy. Technological advances could significantly decrease the cost of producing ethanol or result in the production of higher-quality ethanol, and if we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances into our operations, our proposed ethanol plants could become uncompetitive or obsolete. We expect that technological advances in the processes and procedures for processing ethanol will continue to occur. It is possible that those advances could make the processes and procedures that we intend to utilize at our ethanol plants less efficient or obsolete, or cause the ethanol we produce to be of a lesser quality. These advances could also allow our competitors to produce ethanol at a lower cost than us. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our ethanol production methods and processes could be less efficient than those of our competitors, which could cause our ethanol plants to become uncompetitive. Ethanol production methods are also constantly advancing. The current trend in ethanol production research is to develop an efficient method of producing ethanol from cellulose-based biomass such as agricultural waste, forest residue and municipal solid waste. This trend is driven by the fact that cellulose-based biomass is generally cheaper than corn and producing ethanol from cellulose-based biomass would create opportunities to produce ethanol in areas that are unable to grow corn. Another trend in ethanol production research is to produce ethanol through a chemical or thermal process, rather than a fermentation process, thereby significantly increasing the ethanol yield per pound of feedstock. Although current technology does not allow these production methods to be competitive, new technologies may develop that would allow these methods to become viable means of ethanol production in the future. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate these advances into our operations, our cost of producing ethanol could be significantly higher than those of our competitors, which could make our ethanol plants obsolete. Modifying our plants to use the new inputs and technologies will likely require material investment. In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our existing debt financing agreements contain and our future debt financing agreements may contain restrictive covenants that limit distributions and impose restrictions on the operation of our business. Our failure, or the failure of any of our subsidiaries, to comply with applicable debt financing covenants and agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will need a significant amount of additional debt financing to complete our projects and operate our ethanol plants following construction, but we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. The use of debt financing makes it more difficult for us to operate because we must make principal and interest payments on the indebtedness and abide by covenants contained in our debt financing agreements. The level of our debt may have important implications on our operations, including, among other things: • Limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; 22 Table of Contents • Making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; • Subjecting all or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there may be no assets left for shareholders in the event of a liquidation; • Limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the general economic conditions of our business; and • Limiting our ability to make business and operational decisions regarding our business and our subsidiaries, including, among other things, limiting our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, make capital improvements, sell or purchase assets or engage in transactions we deem to be appropriate and in our best interest. The terms of our existing debt financing agreements contain, and any future debt financing agreement we enter into may contain, financial, maintenance, organizational, operational and other restrictive covenants. If we are unable to comply with these covenants or service our debt, we may lose control of our business and be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or submit to foreclosure proceedings, all of which could result in a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our debt arrangements may also include subordinated debt, which may contain even more restrictions and be on less favorable terms than our senior debt. To secure subordinated debt, we may have to give the lender warrants, put rights, conversion rights, the right to take control of our business in the event of a default or other rights and benefits as the lender may require. We may secure our debt financing directly or through the wholly-owned subsidiary entities we have established to operate each of our ethanol plants. Regardless of the structure, our debt financing arrangements will contain various covenants and agreements and may contain cross-acceleration and cross-default provisions. Under these provisions, a default or acceleration of one debt agreement will result in the default and acceleration of our other debt agreements (regardless of whether we were in compliance with the terms of such other debt agreements), providing the lenders under such other debt agreements has the right to accelerate the obligations due under such other debt agreements. Accordingly, a default, whether by us or any of our subsidiaries, could result in all of our outstanding debt becoming immediately due and payable. The application of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions means that our compliance, and our subsidiaries’ compliance, with applicable debt covenants and agreements will be interdependent and one default (including a default by one of our subsidiaries) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our management and auditors have identified material weaknesses in the design or operation of our internal controls that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. With respect to the audit of our 2006 financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm issued a letter to our audit committee in which they identified a material weakness related to the financial close process. Our auditors defined a “material weakness” as a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects an entity’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the entity’s financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. There were adjustments to our financial statements and other factors during the course of our 2006 audit which impacted our closing process and delayed the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, including all required disclosures, in a timely manner. The audit adjustments to our original trial balance impacted net income and a number of balance sheet accounts. The most significant of these entries were to adjust capitalized interest and deferred income taxes. In addition, several of these adjustments were not 23 Table of Contents identified until over two months after our year end. These deficiencies constituted a material weakness in our financial close process. Our auditors recommended that we continue to create and refine a structure in which critical accounting policies and estimates are identified, and together with other complex areas, are subject to multiple reviews by accounting personnel. Our auditors further recommended that we enhance and test our year-end financial close process during the quarterly Form 10-Q preparation process in 2007. With respect to our 2005 audit, our auditors identified a material weakness relating to our accounting for certain of our business transactions. During 2005, we entered into numerous transactions which had complex accounting ramifications, including business combination, stock based compensation, lease, plant construction and debt restructuring transactions. Due to our inability to identify or properly record these transactions in a timely manner, numerous audit adjustments were required. Our auditors recommended that we provide additional resources to accounting personnel and that we implement additional control procedures. With respect to our 2004 audit, our auditors identified a reportable condition relating to the inadequate segregation of accounting and financial duties within US Bio Resource Group, the company that provided us with management and administrative services, including accounting services. On November 17, 2005, we terminated the administrative services agreement with US Bio Resource Group. In connection with Platte Valley’s 2004 audit, its auditors identified internal control deficiencies relating to the separation of accounting functions, the duties of Platte Valley’s controllers and Platte Valley’s accounting procedures manual. We acquired Platte Valley on April 30, 2006. In response to these matters, we have implemented an internal audit function, and our board of directors established an audit committee. In addition we are in the process of upgrading our systems, implementing additional financial and management controls, and reporting systems and procedures. We have hired a new chief financial officer, a tax director, and additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. We are also currently undergoing a comprehensive effort in preparation for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This effort, under the direction of senior management, includes documentation, and testing of our general computer controls and business processes. We are currently in the process of formalizing an internal audit plan that includes performing a risk assessment, establishing a reporting methodology and testing internal controls and procedures over financial reporting. If the remedial policies and procedures we are implementing are insufficient to address the identified material weakness, or if additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting,” which will be required once the SEC’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 become applicable to us. As a result of our IPO in December 2006, we are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. As a result of our IPO, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. Until just before our IPO, we did not have an internal audit function or a standing audit committee. We are in the process of upgrading our systems, implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, implementing an internal audit function and hiring additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements 24 Table of Contents and other rules that apply to us could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are a holding company, and there are limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Moreover, substantially all of our subsidiaries are currently, or are expected in the future to be, limited in their ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us by the terms of their financing agreements. Certain of our shareholders exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with our or the interests of our stockholders, and they may make decisions with which we or our stockholders may disagree. Gordon Ommen, our chief executive officer, Ron Fagen and CHS Inc. beneficially own approximately 21.08%, 21.06% and 21.22% of our outstanding common stock, respectively, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders, i.e., shareholders holding more than 5% of our common stock, including Gordon Ommen, Ron Fagen and CHS Inc., together control approximately 67.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting individually or together, could significantly influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of these shareholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of our shareholders. For instance, Capitaline Advisors, LLC, a private equity investment management firm specializing in renewable energy investments which is 100% owned and controlled by Gordon Ommen, and Fagen, Inc., the leading builder of ethanol plants in the U.S. which is owned and controlled by Ron Fagen, have invested and may continue to invest in a number of other ethanol producers. For example, Capitaline Advisors currently has an investment in Big River Resources, LLC, our joint venture partner for the Grinnell facility. As a result of these and other potential conflicting interests, these existing shareholders may make decisions with respect to us with which we or our stockholders may disagree. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations, in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly if our future operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of public market analysts and investors. The volatility in our stock price could be based on various factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • conditions in our industry generally; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our ability to raise additional capital; • changes in market prices for ethanol, distillers grains or our raw materials, such as corn or natural gas; • the expiration, on or about June 13, 2007, of the lock-up agreements that our directors, executive officers and certain shareholders (who, in the aggregate, beneficially own 77.6% of our outstanding common stock) entered into in connection with our IPO and sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, and; 25 Table of Contents • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “ongoing,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project” and similar words or phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but the absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to update you on the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under “Risk factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As stated elsewhere in this document, such factors include, among others: • our ability to implement our expansion strategy as planned or at all; • the volatility and uncertainty of commodity prices; • changes in current legislation or regulations that affect ethanol supply and demand; • changes in ethanol supply and demand; • our ability to compete effectively in the industry; • our limited operating history and history of operating losses; • our ability to successfully locate and integrate future acquisitions; • development of infrastructure related to the sale and distribution of ethanol; • the results of our hedging transactions; • operational difficulties at our ethanol plants; • the adverse effect of environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities; • our less than 100% ownership of and control over certain assets used in our business; • our ability to provide services to competing third-party producers; • disruptions to infrastructure or in the supply of raw materials; • the limited use of our historical financial information in evaluating our performance; • the division of our management’s time and energy among our different ethanol plants; 26 Table of Contents • competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry; • our ability to keep pace with technological advances; • the restrictive covenants in our debt financing agreements; • the material weakness and reportable conditions identified in our internal controls; • we are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which we may not be adequately prepared; • our status as a holding company; • certain of our shareholders could exert significant influence over us; and • the market price of our common stock may be volatile. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 