D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our common shares. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for distributions or the trading price of our common shares. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from our operations to enable us to pay dividends on our shares following the payment of fees and expenses and the establishment of any reserves. We intend to pay regular quarterly dividends. We may not, however, have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay dividends. The amount of dividends we can pay depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; • the level of our operating costs; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our containerships; • delays in the delivery of new vessels and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those ships; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; 4 Table of Contents • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; and • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions. The amount of cash we have available for dividends on our shares will not depend solely on our profitability. The actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends also will depend on many factors including the following: • changes in our operating cash flow, capital expenditure requirements, working capital requirements and other cash needs; • the charter rates on new vessels and those obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; • restrictions under our credit facilities or lease arrangements or any future credit agreements or debt securities; • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors; and • restrictions under Marshall Islands law. In addition, before we can determine the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, we must pay fees to our Manager for the technical management of our vessels, must pay a monthly administrative services fee not to exceed $6,000 per month and must reimburse our Manager for all reasonable costs in providing us with administrative and strategic services. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our credit facilities and lease arrangements also restrict our declaration and payment of dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or if the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default. In addition, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend and any such dividend may be discontinued at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, if our quarterly cash dividend exceeds $0.485 per common and subordinated share, our Manager will share in incremental dividends through the incentive shares based upon specified sharing ratios, which will reduce the cash available for dividends on our common and subordinated shares. On January 24, 2008, we announced a quarterly cash dividend increase to $0.475 per common and subordinated shares. As a result of these and the other factors mentioned above, we may pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to complete the acquisition of our fleet that we have contracted to purchase and to expand the size of our fleet, which may cause our ability to pay dividends to be diminished, our financial leverage to increase or our shareholders to be diluted. We have agreed to acquire an additional 39 containerships over approximately the next 43 months. We have entered into contracts to purchase 34 of those containerships and, as of December 31, 2007, the total purchase price of the 34 vessels was estimated to be approximately $2.6 billion. Our obligation to purchase the 34 vessels is not conditional upon our ability to obtain financing for such purchases. We will lease the remaining five of the 39 vessels from Peony Leasing Limited, or Peony, a subsidiary of Bank of Scotland plc. Under the terms of our lease financing arrangements with Peony, we have the ability to purchase the five vessels from Peony at a price approximately equal to their fair market value at the end of their relevant lease terms. Although we currently intend to purchase all five vessels, we cannot assure you that we will be able to purchase them on terms favorable to us or at all. 5 Table of Contents To fund the remaining portion of these and other capital expenditures, we will use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Use of cash from operations may reduce cash available for dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to distribute a consistent level of dividends from earnings to our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends. Over the long-term, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to preserve the operating capacity of our fleet, which could result in a reduction or elimination of our ability to pay dividends. We must make substantial capital expenditures over the long-term to preserve the operating capacity of our fleet. If, however, we do not retain funds in our business in amounts necessary to preserve our capital base, over the long-term, we will not be able to continue to refinance our indebtedness or maintain our payment of dividends. At some time in the future, we will likely need to retain additional funds, on an annual basis, to provide reasonable assurance of maintaining our capital base over the long-term. There are a number of factors that will not be determinable for a number of years, but that will be considered by our board of directors in future decisions regarding the amount of funds to be retained in our business to preserve our capital base. Unless we are successful in making accretive acquisitions with outside sources of financing, which add a material amount to our cash available for retention in our business or unless our board of directors concludes that we will likely be able to recharter our fleet when our current charters expire at rates higher than the rates in our current charters, our board of directors will likely determine at some future date to reduce, or possibly eliminate, our dividend in order to be able to have reasonable assurance that it is retaining the funds necessary to preserve our capital base. When we refer to accretive acquisitions, we mean acquisitions that will increase our distributable cash flow per share. We currently derive the substantial majority of our revenue from four charterers, and the loss of any charterer could result in a significant loss of revenue and cash flow. Customers for our current operating fleet are China Shipping Container Lines (Asia) Co., Ltd., or CSCL Asia, a subsidiary of China Shipping Container Lines Co., Ltd., or CSCL; Hapag-Lloyd USA, LLC, or HL USA, a subsidiary of Hapag-Lloyd, AG, or Hapag-Lloyd; COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd., or COSCON, a subsidiary of China COSCO Holdings Company Limited, or China COSCO, and A.P. Møller-Mærsk A/S, or APM. Currently, CSCL Asia, HL USA, APM and COSCON charter fourteen, nine, four and two vessels from us, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, CSCL Asia, HL USA, APM and COSCON accounted for 51.6%, 27.6%, 16.4% and 4.4% of our containership revenue, respectively. All of our vessels are chartered to charterers under long-term time charters, and these charterers’ payments to us are our primary source of operating cash flow. At any given time in the future, cash reserves of the charterers may be diminished or exhausted, and we cannot assure you that the charterers will be able to make charter payments to us. The loss of any of these charters could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under some circumstances, we could lose a charterer or the benefits of a time charter if: • the charterer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us, defaults on a payment or otherwise; • at the time of delivery, the vessel subject to the time charter differs in its specifications from those agreed upon under the shipbuilding contract with each of the relevant shipbuilders; • the charterer exercises certain specific limited rights to terminate the charter; • upon a change of control of the Company, the charterer fails to consent to such change of control; or 6 Table of Contents • the charterer terminates the charter because the ship fails to meet certain guaranteed speed and fuel consumption requirements and we are unable to rectify the situation or otherwise reach a mutually acceptable settlement. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement at the end of a vessel’s useful life, our revenue will decline. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, any reserves set aside for vessel replacement would not be available for dividends. As we expand our business, our Manager may need to improve its operating and financial systems and expand our commercial and technical management staff, and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. In 2007, we increased the size of our contracted fleet to 68, which is approximately triple the size of our contracted fleet at the time of our initial public offering. Our Manager’s current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we continue to implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, our Manager will need to recruit suitable additional administrative and management personnel. We cannot guarantee that our Manager will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. In the event of a shortage of experienced labor or if our Manager encounters business or financial difficulties, our Manager may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If our Manager is unable to grow its financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our results of operations and customer relationships may be adversely affected. A decrease in the level of China’s exports of goods or an increase in trade barriers to China’s exports will have a material adverse impact on our charterers’ business and, in turn, affect our business and results of operations. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Most of our charterers’ container shipping business revenue is derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region, primarily China, to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China’s exports and on our charterers’ business. Furthermore, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve has caused an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China. These increases also affect the quantity of goods to be shipped, shipping time schedules, voyage costs and other associated costs. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade with China would have an adverse impact on our charterers’ business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our containerships involve the loading or discharging of containerships in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, and particularly in China or Japan, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in 7 Table of Contents the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. The legal system in China is not fully developed and has inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and their legal interpretation by the standing Committee of the National People’s Congress. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. If we are required to commence legal proceedings against a charterer or a charter guarantor based in China with respect to the provisions of a time charter or a time charter guarantee, we may have difficulties in enforcing any judgment obtained in such proceedings in China. Similarly, our shipbuilders based in China provide warranties against certain defects for the vessels that they will construct for us and refund guarantees from a Chinese financial institution for the installment payments that we will make to them. Although the shipbuilding contracts and refund guarantees are governed by English law, if we are required to commence legal proceedings against these shipbuilders with respect to the provisions of the shipbuilding contracts or the warranties, or against the refund guarantor for a refund of our installment payments, we may have difficulties enforcing any judgment obtained in such proceeding in China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow amounts under our credit facilities and restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and lease arrangements impose financial and other restrictions on us, including our ability to pay dividends. We entered into a $1.3 billion amended and restated secured credit facility, of which we have drawn $757.9 million as of December 31, 2007, for the financing and refinancing of our initial fleet and our 4800 TEU vessels and for general corporate purposes. Under the $1.3 billion credit facility, there are restrictions on the amount that can be advanced to us based on the market value of the vessel or vessels in respect of which the advance is being made. Our $1.3 billion credit facility has a maturity date of May 11, 2014 or May 11, 2015, if we exercise the extension option for that facility. On June 29, 2007 and on August 7, 2007, we amended our $365.0 million secured revolving credit facility, dated May 19, 2006 for the partial financing of the acquisition of the two 3500 TEU vessels and eight of the ten 2500 TEU vessels. As of December 31, 2007, we have drawn $111.2 million on this facility. The $365.0 million credit facility has a maturity date of (a) for the 2500 vessels, the earlier of (i) the tenth anniversary of the delivery of the final 2500 TEU vessel or (ii) August 31, 2019, or (b) for the 3500 TEU vessels, July 5, 2017. On October 16, 2006, we entered into a credit facility for $218.4 million to partially finance the construction of the four 5100 TEU vessels being built by HHI. The facility maturity date is the earlier of (a) the anniversary date falling twelve years after the delivery date of the fourth 5100 TEU vessel delivered or (b) December 23, 2021. As of December 31, 2007, we have drawn $83.7 million under this credit facility. On August 8, 2007, we entered into a secured reducing revolving $920.0 million credit facility to partially finance the construction of two of the ten 2500 TEU vessels under construction by Jiangsu Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Co. Ltd., or Jiangsu, four 4250 TEU vessels under construction at New Jiangsu, eight 8500 TEU vessels under construction at HHI and for general corporate purposes. The $920.0 million credit facility has a maturity date of the earlier of (a) the twelfth anniversary of the delivery date of the vessels referenced in the credit facility or (b) December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2007, we have drawn $336.6 million under this credit facility. On December 28, 2007, we entered into a secured reducing revolving $150.0 million credit facility agreement with two of our wholly-owned subsidiary companies, Seaspan Finance II Co. Ltd. and Seaspan Finance III Co. Ltd., to finance the construction of two of our 13100 TEU vessels and for general corporate purposes. We have drawn $50.0 million from this credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The final maturity date for the $150.0 million credit facility is the earlier of the twelfth anniversary of the delivery date of the last vessel delivered and October 17, 2023. On March 17, 2008, we entered into a $291.2 million credit facility agreement to partially finance the construction of two of our 13100 TEU vessels and for general corporate purposes. The facility has a term loan component, which is divided into two tranches, and a revolving loan component, which is divided into a senior revolver and junior revolver. We have not drawn any amounts under this facility to date. The final maturity date for the revolving loan is the earlier of the twelfth anniversary of the delivery date of the last vessel delivered and December 31, 2023 and the final maturity date for the term loans is the earlier of the twelfth anniversary of the delivery date of the vessels to which those term loans relate and December 31, 2023. 8 Table of Contents Prior to each drawdown under our credit facilities, we are required, among other things, to meet specified financial ratios and other requirements. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, we may not be able to draw down under our credit facilities. We may be required to prepay amounts borrowed under our credit facilities if we, or in certain circumstances, our charterers, experience a change of control. Our credit facilities and lease arrangements also impose operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to comply with certain financial covenants. These restrictions and covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • except in the case of the lease arrangements, pay dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under one of our credit facilities or if the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell our vessels without replacing such vessels or prepaying a portion of our loan; • conduct material transactions with our affiliates except on an arm’s-length basis; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; or • change our business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders or lessors in order to engage in some corporate actions. The interests of our lenders or lessors may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ or lessors’ consent when needed. If we do not comply with the restrictions and covenants in our credit agreements or lease arrangements, we will not be able to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any future indebtedness incurred under our credit facilities. We intend to finance our future fleet expansion program with secured indebtedness drawn under our credit facilities or future credit facilities. While we intend to refinance amounts drawn under our credit facilities or future credit facilities with the net proceeds of future debt and equity offerings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so at an interest rate or on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts with the net proceeds of debt and equity offerings at an interest rate or on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facilities, future credit facilities, future issuance of debt securities or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facilities, future credit facilities, future debt securities or an alternative financing arrangement, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on some of the vessels in our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. 9 Table of Contents Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. Following the completion of our acquisition of the remaining 39 containerships that we have contracted to purchase or lease, as the case may be, we will have substantial indebtedness. Our level of debt and vessel lease obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt or make our lease payments, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; • our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt and vessel lease obligations will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness and vessel lease obligations, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. We depend on our Manager to operate our business. We were incorporated in May 2005, and we do not currently have any employees. Pursuant to our management agreements, our Manager and certain of its affiliates will provide us with certain of our officers and with technical, administrative and strategic services (including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance, assistance with regulatory compliance and financial services). Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy will depend significantly upon our Manager’s satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if our Manager fails to perform these services satisfactorily. In addition, if any of the management agreements were to be terminated or if their terms were to be altered, our business could be adversely affected as we may not be able to immediately replace such services, or even if replacement services are immediately available, the terms offered may be less favorable than the ones currently offered by our Manager. Our ability to compete for and to enter into new charters and expand our relationships with our charterers will depend largely on our relationship with our Manager and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If our Manager suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: • renew existing charters upon their expiration; • obtain new charters; • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of vessel construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; • maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; or • successfully execute our growth strategy. 10 Table of Contents If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The fixed fees that we pay our Manager for its technical management of our ships may increase, which would increase our operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Under the management agreements for all our vessels, we pay our Manager a fixed fee for its technical management of such vessels. Pursuant to the management agreements, the fees are effective until December 31, 2008 and thereafter, we and our Manager are required to renegotiate new fees every three years. If we and our Manager are unable to agree on new fees, the management agreements require that an arbitrator determines a fair market fee. Any increase in these fees will increase our operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Delays in deliveries of our newly built containerships could harm our operating results. We are currently under contract to purchase 34 and lease five additional containerships, which are scheduled to be delivered at various times over approximately the next four years. These vessels are being built by Jiangsu, New Jiangsu, HHI, Hyundai Samho Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. (a subsidiary of HHI), or HSHI, and Samsung (individually, the “Shipbuilder” and collectively, the “Shipbuilders”). The delivery of these vessels, or any other newbuildings we may order, could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenue under the time charters for the containerships and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The delivery of the newbuildings could be delayed because of: • work stoppages or other labor disturbances or other events that disrupt any of the Shipbuilders’ operations; • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • lack of raw materials; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of any of the Shipbuilders; • a backlog of orders at any of the Shipbuilders; • hostilities, or political or economic disturbances in South Korea or China, where the containerships are being built; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • our requests for changes to the original containership specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals; or • a dispute with any of the Shipbuilders. In addition, each of the shipbuilding contracts for the additional 39 vessels contain “force majeure” provisions whereby the occurrence of certain events could delay delivery or possibly result in termination of the contract. If delivery of a containership is materially delayed or if a shipbuilding contract is terminated, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We will be paying all costs for the four 5100 TEU vessels and eight 8500 TEU vessels that are being built for us by HHI, the ten 2500 TEU vessels that are being built for us by Jiangsu, the four 4250 TEU vessels that are being built for us by New Jiangsu and the eight 13100 TEU vessels being built for us by HHI and HSHI. For each of the four 5100 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase, we are required to make five payment installments, ranging from 5% to 20% of the total contracted purchase price for each vessel, and a sixth installment for the final 50% balance remaining outstanding for each vessel. We have entered into a $218.4 million long-term credit facility to partially fund the construction of these vessels. For eight of the ten 2500 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase, we are required to make five payment installments, each consisting of 10% of the total contracted purchase price for each vessel, and a sixth installment for the final 50% balance remaining outstanding for each vessel. We have entered into a $365.0 million long-term credit facility to partially fund the construction of these vessels. For two of the ten 2500 TEU vessels and the four 4250 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase, we are required to make five payment installments, each consisting of 20% of the total contracted purchase price for each vessel. For the eight 8500 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase, we are required to make five installments ranging from 5% to 20% of the total contracted purchase price for each vessel and a sixth installment for the final 50% balance remaining outstanding for each vessel. We have entered into a $920.0 million credit facility to partially fund the construction of these vessels. For the eight 13100 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase, we are required to make five payment installments, each consisting of 10% of the total contracted purchase price for each vessel, and a sixth installment for the final 50% balance remaining outstanding for each vessel. We have entered into a $150.0 million credit facility and a $291.2 million credit facility to partially fund the construction of four of the eight 13100 TEU vessels. If a Shipbuilder is unable to deliver a vessel or if we reject a vessel, we may in certain circumstances be required to pay back a portion of the outstanding balance of the relevant credit facility. Further, if a charterer rejects a vessel, we may in certain circumstances be required to pay back a portion of the outstanding balance of the relevant credit facility. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are relying on Peony, subject to the upper aggregate cap of $400.0 million agreed in the leases, to pay all costs for the five 4500 TEU vessels that we have agreed to lease from Peony upon delivery of the vessels. We entered into contracts in November and December 2007 to purchase five 4500 TEU vessels from Samsung. We subsequently novated those contracts to Peony, a subsidiary of Bank of Scotland, plc, in connection with the lease financing of the 4500 TEU vessels. Pursuant to the terms of the novation and lease agreements for the vessels, Peony is responsible for all costs relating to the construction and delivery of the five 4500 TEU vessels that we have contracted to lease, but have not yet been delivered, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $400.0 million. If Peony becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to continue to make construction payments for the 4500 TEU vessels, Samsung has the right to further novate the contracts back to us and we may need to finance the containerships before they begin operating and generating revenue, which could harm our business. Please read “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Financing Facilities—Our $400.0 Million UK Lease Facility” in this Annual Report. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in our containership transportation business could reduce our ability to service our debt obligations and pay dividends to our shareholders. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from our charters that operate in the containership transportation business. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the container shipping industry would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. 12 Table of Contents The age of our 4800 TEU secondhand vessels will result in increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our 4800 TEU secondhand vessels have an average age of approximately 18.5 years as of December 31, 2007. Older vessels are typically more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment to these 4800 TEU secondhand vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. The increased costs associated with these vessels may prevent us from operating them profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Under the time charters for certain of our vessels, if a vessel is off-hire for an extended period, the charterer has a right to terminate the charter agreement for that vessel. Pursuant to most of our time charter agreements, if a vessel is off-hire for an extended period, the charterer has a right to terminate the charter agreement for that vessel. If a time charter is terminated early, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us. In the worst case, we may not receive any revenues from that vessel, but may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. Please see “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Time Charters.” Our charter revenue from the four 4800 TEU secondhand vessels will decrease if APM exercises its options to extend its charters beyond the initial charter period of five years. We purchased the four 4800 TEU secondhand vessels from APM in 2006. Simultaneously with the delivery of the four 4800 TEU vessels, we entered into five-year charter agreements for each of these vessels with APM at a daily hire rate of $23,450. Upon the expiration of the initial five-year time charter term for each of the four 4800 TEU vessels, APM will have two consecutive one-year options to charter each vessel at $22,400 and $21,400 per day, respectively, and a final two-year option to charter each vessel at $20,400 per day. Our Manager will operate the four 4800 TEU vessels purchased from APM for a fixed fee of $5,750 per day through December 31, 2008. The daily fixed fee thereafter will be subject to renegotiation every three years. If APM exercises its options, our charter revenue from the four 4800 TEU secondhand vessels will decrease during the option years. Our growth depends upon continued growth in demand for containerships. Our articles of incorporation limit our business to the chartering or rechartering of containerships to others and any other lawful act or activity customarily conducted in conjunction with the chartering or rechartering of containerships to others, although our business purpose may be modified by our board of directors subject to, for as long as the management agreements with our Manager are in effect, the approval of the holders of our incentive shares. Our growth will generally depend on continued growth in world and regional demand for chartering marine container shipping. The ocean-going shipping container industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. In the future, rates may continue to decline. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for ship capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major products internationally transported by containerships. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and supply and demand for products shipped in containers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; • changes in global production of products transported by containerships; • the distance container cargo products are to be moved by sea; 13 Table of Contents • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; • the number of containerships that are out of service; and • port congestion. Our ability to recharter our containerships upon the expiration or termination of their current time charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the then current state of the containership market. If the containership market is in a period of depression when our ships’ charters expire, we may be forced to recharter our ships at reduced rates or even possibly a rate whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will exist if we acquire additional vessels and attempt to subject them to a long-term time charter arrangement as part of our acquisition and financing plan. An over-supply of containership capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of containerships has been increasing. An over-supply of containership capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs upon the expiration or termination of our containerships’ current time charters, we may only be able to recharter our containerships for reduced rates or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to recharter our containerships at all. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing charterers and obtain new charterers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to acquire additional containerships in conjunction with entering into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for such ships. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Container shipping charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; • container shipping experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • quality and experience of seafaring crew; 14 Table of Contents • the ability to finance containerships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new ships according to customer specifications; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition for providing new containership service from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major shipping companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do, and can therefore operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies will enter the containership sector, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate time charters if a more active short-term or spot container shipping market develops. One of our principal strategies is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate container time charters. As more vessels become available for the spot or short-term market, we may have difficulty entering into additional long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our vessels due to the increased supply of vessels and possibly cheaper rates in the spot market and, as a result, our cash flow may be subject to instability in the long-term. A more active short-term or spot market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on a fixed-rate, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when the market price for container shipping is depressed or insufficient funds are available to cover our financing costs for related vessels. Over time, containership values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a containership, we may incur a loss. Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in the market in which the containership trades; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade; • increases in the supply of containership capacity; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to draw down the full amount of our credit facilities if the market value of our vessels declines. There are restrictions on the amount that can be advanced to us under our credit facilities based on the market value of the vessel or vessels in respect of which the advance is being made and the price at which we are acquiring or have acquired the vessel or other factors. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our credit facilities, or obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We may also not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring new containerships, existing containerships, containership related assets and container shipping businesses. Factors that may limit the number of acquisition opportunities in the containership industry in the near term include the relatively small number of independent containership fleet owners and the limited number of modern containerships with appropriate characteristics not subject to existing long-term charters. In addition, competition from other companies could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable to us at or after the time we acquire it and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable, through our Manager, to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; or • not be able to retain our ability to service our debt obligations and pay substantial regular dividends. Unlike newbuildings, existing containerships typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we would inspect existing containerships prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a containership’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operations of our containerships are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of our containerships. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and our compliance with these requirements can be costly. 16 Table of Contents Environmental requirements can also affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous materials associated with our existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. The operation of our containerships is also affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Failure to comply with the ISM Code may subject us to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected ships, and may result in denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. In addition, in complying with existing environmental laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, we may incur significant costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements and new restrictions on air emissions from our containerships, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release of bunker fuel from one of our containerships could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could cause disruption of the business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures, or inspection procedures, in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These inspection procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, charterers. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. and Canadian authorities have increased container inspection rates. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers, that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing inspection procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the industry. It is possible that such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations, including additional responsibility for inspecting and recording the contents of containers. Changes to the inspection procedures and container security could result in additional costs and obligations on carriers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. Additional costs may arise from current inspection procedures or future proposals may not be fully recoverable from customers through higher rates or security surcharges. 17 Table of Contents Governments could requisition our containerships during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. The government of a ship’s registry could requisition for title or seize our containerships. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a ship and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our containerships for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a ship and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our containerships may negatively impact our revenue. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 1l, 2001, and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks targeted at sea vessels, such as the October 2002 attack in Yemen on the VLCC Limburg, a ship not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our containerships or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession affecting the United States or the entire world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered could affect us. Hostilities in South Korea could constitute a force majeure event under our contracts with Samsung, HHI and HSHI and could impact the construction of our newbuildings or result in their inability to perform under the contracts. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. Risks inherent in the operation of ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our expenses, net income and share price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. Such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenue from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenue, which could result in reduction in the market price of our securities. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. 18 Table of Contents Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations due to the inherent operational risks of the shipping industry. We maintain insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Under the terms of our credit facilities and lease agreements, we will be subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds we may receive from claims under our insurance policies. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to supplementary or additional calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations, as an industry group, through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for statutory, contractual and tort liability due to the sharing and reinsurance arrangements stated in the insurance rules. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless directly or indirectly increase our costs. In addition, we do not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our 8500 TEU vessels and our 9600 TEU vessels that are chartered to CSCL Asia are enrolled with Lloyd’s Register. Our 4250 TEU vessels that are chartered to HL USA and our 4800 TEU vessels that are chartered to APM are also enrolled with Lloyd’s Register. Our 4250 TEU vessels that are chartered to CSCL Asia and our 3500 TEU vessels that are chartered to COSCON are enrolled with Det Norske Veritas. Upon delivery, each of the 13100 TEU vessels, the 8500 TEU vessels and the ten 2500 TEU vessels that we have contracted to purchase will also be 19 Table of Contents enrolled with Lloyd’s Register. The 4250 TEU vessels that we have contracted to purchase will be enrolled with Germanischer Lloyd. Each of the 5100 TEU vessels that we have contracted to purchase and the 4500 TEU vessels that we have contracted to lease will be enrolled with Det Norske Veritas. All of the currently operating vessels have been awarded ISM certification and we expect that each of the vessels to be delivered in the future will be awarded ISM certification upon delivery. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Each of the vessels in our fleet is on a special survey cycle for hull inspection and a continuous survey cycle for machinery inspection. These vessels have qualified within their respective classification societies for drydocking once every five years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and we could be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements and our lease agreements for the 4500 TEU vessels. This would negatively impact our revenue. Our Manager will engage in other businesses and may compete with us. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement, our Manager, Seaspan International Ltd., or Seaspan International, and Norsk Pacific Steamship Company Limited, generally agreed to, and agreed to cause their controlled affiliates (which does not include us), not to engage in the business of chartering or rechartering containerships to others during the term of our Initial Management Agreement (as defined below in “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Management Agreements.”) The omnibus agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow these entities to compete with us. Our officers do not devote all of their time to our business. Our Manager and its affiliates as well as certain of our officers are involved in other business activities that may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary in order to manage our business successfully. Our chief executive officer has entered into an employment agreement with our Manager whereby he has agreed to serve as our chief executive officer for an initial term of three years to December 31, 2008 that is renewable annually thereafter by mutual consent. Pursuant to this employment agreement, our chief executive officer devotes substantially all of his time to us and our Manager on our business and affairs. Our chief financial officer is also employed by our Manager and he also devotes substantially all of his time to us and our Manager. Other officers appointed by our Manager may spend a material portion of their time providing services to our Manager and its affiliates on matters unrelated to us. Our business depends upon certain employees who may not necessarily continue to work for us. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon our chief executive officer, Gerry Wang, and certain members of our senior management and that of our Manager. Mr. Wang has substantial experience in the container shipping industry and has worked with our Manager for many years. Mr. Wang and others employed by our Manager are crucial to the development of our business strategy and to the growth and development of our business. If they were no longer to be affiliated with our Manager, or if we otherwise cease to receive advisory services from them, we may fail to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and our business and financial condition may suffer as a result. Although Mr. Wang has an employment agreement with our Manager, he does not have an employment agreement with us. In addition, Mr. Wang’s employment agreement is due to expire at the end of 2008 (or 2009 if the contract is renewed). As such, it is possible that Mr. Wang will no longer provide services to us and that our business may be adversely affected by the loss of such services. Our Manager and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment and ours. Conflicts of interest may arise between our Manager and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and holders of our securities, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our Manager may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of the holders of our securities. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • the asset purchase agreement, our Initial Management Agreement and the omnibus agreement and other contractual agreements we have with our Manager and its affiliates were negotiated prior to our initial public offering and were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations, and the negotiation of these agreements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services; 20 Table of Contents • our chief executive officer and certain of our directors also serve as executive officers or directors of our Manager; • our Manager advises our board of directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for dividends to our shareholders and the payment of dividends on the incentive shares; • our Manager may recommend that we borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash dividends, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to pay a dividend on the subordinated shares; • our officers, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, do not spend all of their time on matters related to our business; and • our Manager advises us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. Even if our board of directors or our shareholders are dissatisfied with our Manager, there are limited circumstances under which the management agreements governing the management of our vessels can be terminated by us. On the other hand, our Manager has substantial rights to terminate the management agreements and, under certain circumstances could receive very substantial sums in connection with such termination. Under the management agreements governing our vessels, our Manager has the right after five years from our initial public offering to terminate the management agreements on twelve months’ notice, although the covenant limiting our Manager’s ability to compete with us continues for two years following such termination. Our Manager also has the right to terminate the management agreements after a dispute resolution if we have materially breached any of the management agreements, in which case none of the covenants would continue to apply to our Manager. The management agreements will each terminate upon the sale of substantially all our assets to a third party, our liquidation or after any change of control of our company occurs. If the management agreements are terminated as a result of an asset sale, our liquidation or change of control, then our Manager may be paid the fair market value of the incentive shares as determined by an appraisal process. Any such payment could be substantial. In addition, our rights to terminate the management agreements are limited. Even if we are not satisfied with the Manager’s efforts in managing our business, unless our Manager materially breaches one of the agreements, we may not be able to terminate any of the management agreements until 2020. This early termination right requires a two-thirds approval of our independent directors, and if we elect to do so, or if we elect to terminate the management agreements at the end of their initial terms in 2025 or a subsequent renewal term, our Manager will continue to receive dividends on the incentive shares for a five-year period from the date of termination. Our Manager could receive substantial sums based on its ownership of the incentive shares if our quarterly dividends to our shareholders are increased, reducing the amount of cash that would otherwise have been available for increased dividends to our shareholders. Our Manager shares in incremental dividends, based on specified sharing ratios, on its incentive shares if and to the extent that the available cash from operating surplus paid by us exceeds specified target dividend levels. Because these incentive dividends are taken from the total pool of dividends payable to holders of common and subordinated shares, such dividends will reduce the amount of cash which would otherwise have been available to increase the amount to be paid as dividends to our shareholders. Please read “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Management Agreements—Compensation of Our Manager.” 21 Table of Contents Our Manager is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it. The ability of our Manager to continue providing services for our benefit depends in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Manager’s financial strength, and because it is a privately held company, information about its financial strength is not available. As a result, an investor in our securities might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Manager, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. As part of our reporting obligations as a public company, we disclose information regarding our Manager that has a material impact on us to the extent that we become aware of such information. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred shares without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for those directors; • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • restricting business combinations with interested shareholders. In addition, upon a change of control, our Manager may elect to have us purchase the incentive shares, which could result in a substantial payment to our Manager and discourage a change of control that might otherwise be beneficial to shareholders. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the prior approval of our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including the provisions of our shareholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our securities and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 22 Table of Contents Each vessel in our fleet is built or will be built in accordance with standard designs and uniform in all material respect to all other vessels in its class, thus any material defect in one vessel will likely affect all of our other vessels in such class. Each vessel in our fleet is built or will be built in accordance with standard designs and uniform in all material respects to all other vessels in its class. As a result, any latent design defect discovered in one of our vessels will likely affect all of our other vessels in that class. Any disruptions in the operation of our vessels resulting from these defects could adversely affect our receipt of revenue under time charters for the vessels affected. There are greater than normal operational risks with respect to the 9600 TEU vessels that we have purchased. The two 9600 TEU vessels that we have purchased are some of the first vessels of this type to be built. Although one other company before us has built, serviced or operated similar vessels built by Samsung, there are unknown and possibly greater than normal operational risks associated with these vessels. Problems with operation of these vessels could be encountered, which would adversely affect our receipt of revenue under time charters for these vessels as well as their future resale value. There are greater than normal construction, delivery and operational risks with respect to the 13100 TEU vessels that we have agreed to purchase. The eight 13100 TEU vessels that we have purchased are some of the first vessels of this type to be built. As such, there are unknown and possibly greater than normal construction, delivery and operational risks associated with these vessels. Deliveries of these vessels could be delayed and problems with operation of these vessels could be encountered, either of which would adversely affect our receipt of revenue under time charters for these vessels, as well as their future resale value. Increased competition in technological innovation could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels. The charter hire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to be loaded and unloaded quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. Physical life is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new containerships are built that are more efficient or flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect the amount of charter hire payments we receive for our vessels once their initial charters are terminated and the resale value of our vessels. As a result, our cash available for the service of our debt obligations and the payment of dividends could be adversely affected. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing for future acquisitions of vessels may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under 23 Table of Contents statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our principal executive offices are located in Hong Kong. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against our directors or our management in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or our directors and officers. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of expected material U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of common shares. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), 50% of the gross shipping income of a ship owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and as such is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we qualified for this statutory tax exemption for the year ended December 31, 2007 (our “2007 Year”) and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are circumstances, including some that are beyond our control, that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. For example, 5% shareholders could acquire and own the majority of our outstanding common shares. This would preclude us from being eligible for the Section 883 exemption unless we can establish that among those 5% shareholders, there are sufficient 5% shareholders that are qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified 5% shareholders from owning 50% or more of such shares for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. Therefore, we can give no assurances regarding our qualification for this tax exemption or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our gross U.S. source shipping income for such year. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and could result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A non-U.S. corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. 24 Table of Contents shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our assets, income and operations, we do not believe that for our 2007 Year we were a PFIC nor do we expect to become a PFIC with respect to any other taxable year. We derive substantially all of our income from time chartering activities and we believe that at least a majority, if not all, such income should be treated for relevant U.S. federal income tax purposes as services income rather than rental income. Such services income should not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income, in particular, at least a majority, if not all, of our vessels, should not constitute passive assets for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC in any taxable year. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the enactment of previously proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for the preferential rate. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. individual shareholders (and certain other U.S. shareholders). In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2011 or later will be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. In addition, legislation proposed in the U.S. Congress would deny the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation unless the non-U.S. corporation is created or organized under the laws of a foreign country that has a comprehensive income tax system. The Marshall Islands imposes only limited taxes on entities organized under its laws. Consequently, if this legislation were enacted, the preferential rate of federal income tax imposed on qualified dividend income may no longer be applicable to dividends received from us. As of the date hereof, it is not possible to predict with any certainty whether this previously proposed legislation will be enacted. We may become a resident of Canada and have to pay tax in Canada on our worldwide income, which could reduce our earnings, and shareholders could then become taxable in Canada in respect of their ownership of our shares. Moreover, as a non-resident of Canada we may have to pay tax in Canada on our Canadian source income, which could reduce our earnings. Under the Income Tax Act (Canada), or the Canada Tax Act, a corporation that is resident in Canada is subject to tax in Canada on its worldwide income, and shareholders of a corporation resident in Canada may be subject to Canadian capital gains tax on a disposition of its shares and to Canadian withholding tax on dividends paid in respect of such shares. Our place of residence, under Canadian law, would generally be determined on the basis of where our central management and control are, in fact, exercised. It is not our current intention that our central management and control be exercised in Canada but, even if it were, there is a specific statutory exemption under the Canada Tax Act that provides that a corporation incorporated, or otherwise formed, under the laws of a country other than Canada will not be resident in Canada in a taxation year if its principal business is the operation of ships that are used primarily in transporting passengers or goods in international traffic, all or substantially all of its gross revenue for the year consists of gross revenue from the operation of ships in transporting passengers or goods in that international traffic, and it was not granted articles of continuance in Canada before the end of the year. Based on our operations, we do not believe that we are, nor do we expect to be, resident in Canada for purposes of the Canada Tax Act, and we intend that our affairs will be conducted and operated in a manner such that we do not become a resident of Canada under the Canada Tax Act. However, if we were or become resident in Canada, we would be or become subject under the Canada Tax Act to Canadian income tax on our worldwide income. Further, shareholders who are non-residents of Canada may be or become subject under the Canada Tax Act to tax in Canada on any gains realized on the disposition of our shares and would be or become subject to Canadian withholding tax on dividends paid or deemed to be paid by us, subject to any relief that may be available under a tax treaty or convention. 25 Table of Contents Generally, a corporation that is not resident in Canada will be taxable in Canada on income it earns from carrying on a business in Canada and on gains from the disposition of property used in a business carried on in Canada. However, there are specific statutory exemptions under the Canada Tax Act that provide that income earned in Canada by a non-resident corporation from the operation of a ship in international traffic, and gains realized from the disposition of ships used principally in international traffic, are not included in a non-resident corporation’s income for Canadian tax purposes where the corporation’s country of residence grants substantially similar relief to a Canadian resident. A Canadian resident corporation that carries on business in the Republic of the Marshall Islands is exempt from income tax under the current laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. We expect that we will qualify for these statutory exemptions under the Canada Tax Act. Based on our operations, we do not believe that we are, nor do we expect to be, carrying on a business in Canada for purposes of the Canada Tax Act other than a business that would provide us with these statutory exemptions from Canadian income tax. However, these statutory exemptions are contingent upon reciprocal treatment being provided under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. If in the future as a non-resident of Canada, we are carrying on a business in Canada that is not exempt from Canadian income tax, or these statutory exemptions are not accessible due to changes in the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or otherwise, we would be subject to Canadian income tax on our non-exempt income earned in Canada which could reduce our earnings available for distribution to shareholders. Please read “Additional Information—E. Taxation—Canadian Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a discussion of expected material Canadian federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of our common shares. 