Item 1a. Risk Factors The following risk factors are relevant to our future results and financial success, and should be read with care. Risks Related to Our Business Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks, and These Risks Will Increase if We Succeed in Increasing These Types of Loans. We intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans further as a proportion of our portfolio over the next several years. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial loans generate higher returns, but also pose greater credit risks, than do owner-occupied residential mortgage loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. We make both secured and some short-term unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by equipment, leases, inventory and accounts receivable. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial 30 Table of Contents services to customers primarily in Berkshire County, in Western Massachusetts. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements, including our adjustable-rate mortgage loans, which represent a large portion of our residential loan portfolio. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because, as a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest income. See “Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk Management”. We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. On the other hand, increases in interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans result in larger mortgage payments due from borrowers, which could potentially increase our level of loan delinquencies and defaults. We May Have Difficulty Meeting Our Branch Expansion Goals, and Our Branch Expansion Strategy May Not Be Accretive to Earnings. Our growth plans include the opening of new branch offices in communities served by Legacy Banks as well as in other communities contiguous to those currently served by Legacy Banks. Our ability to establish new branches will depend upon whether we can identify suitable sites and negotiate acceptable lease or purchase and sale terms, and we may not be able to do so, or it may take longer than we expect. Moreover, once we establish a new branch, numerous factors will contribute to its performance, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather significant loans and deposits to generate enough income to offset its expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings, or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Our Ability to Grow May Be Limited if We Cannot Make Acquisitions. In an effort to increase our loan and deposit growth, we will continue to seek to expand our banking franchise, including through acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches if opportunities arise. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating them. We compete with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we cannot assure you that we can successfully integrate any acquired financial institutions or branches into our banking organization in a timely or efficient 31 Table of Contents manner, that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or that we can achieve anticipated operating efficiencies. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. We face significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. Savings banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and commercial banks operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, we face additional and significant competition for funds from money-market mutual funds and issuers of corporate and government securities. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Moreover, we may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of our loans and deposits. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Law and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination as outlined in the “Regulation And Supervision” section of this report. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of Thrift Supervision, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a materialy adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None 32 Table of Contents 