D. Risk Factors—Risks Inherent In Our Business—We may not have sufficient cash from our operations to enable us to pay dividends on our shares following the payment of expenses and the establishment of any reserves,” “—Future disruptions in global financial markets and economic conditions or changes in lending practices may harm our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, which could hinder or prevent us from meeting our capital needs,” “—The amount of cash we have available for dividends on our shares will not depend solely on our profitability,” “—Over the long term, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to preserve the operating capacity of our fleet, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares,” and “—We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to complete the acquisition of our newbuilding containerships and any additional vessels we acquire in the future, which may result in increased financial leverage, dilution of our equity holders’ interests or our decreased ability to pay dividends on our shares” for a more detailed description of various factors that could reduce or eliminate our ability to pay dividends. B. Significant Changes In March 2011, we agreed to participate in an investment vehicle established by an affiliate of Carlyle. Please read “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. General—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—2011 Recent Developments—Investment in Carlyle Containership-Focused Investment Vehicle” for more information. In February 2011, we also signed a letter of intent to purchase a significant number of newbuilding containerships to be constructed by a leading Chinese shipyard. Please read “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. General—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—2011 Recent Developments—Newbuilding Order” for more information. 106 Table of Contents Item 9. The Offer and Listing. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “SSW”. The following table sets forth the high and low prices for the common shares on the NYSE since the date of listing for the periods indicated. High Low January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 23.20 19.51 January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007 37.73 19.65 January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 31.40 4.37 January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009 13.07 5.12 January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 15.05 9.22 First quarter 2009 13.07 7.23 Second quarter 2009 12.00 5.52 Third quarter 2009 10.85 5.12 Fourth quarter 2009 10.23 8.15 First quarter 2010 11.36 9.22 Second quarter 2010 13.78 9.30 Third quarter 2010 12.63 9.45 Fourth quarter 2010 15.05 11.89 September 2010 12.63 10.96 October 2010 15.05 12.25 November 2010 13.89 12.41 December 2010 13.14 11.89 January 2011 14.61 12.53 February 2011 16.21 14.42 March 2011 (March 1 through March 25) 17.93 14.19 Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Memorandum and Articles of Association Our Articles of Incorporation have previously been filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Amendment No. 2 to Form F-1 (File No. 333-126762), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005 and are hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Our Bylaws have previously been filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Form F-1 (File No. 333-126762) filed with the SEC on July 21, 2005 and are hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. In connection with our Series A Preferred Share Offering, Series B Preferred Share Offering and Series C Preferred Share Offering, we filed Statements of Designation with respect to our Series A Preferred Shares, Series B Preferred Shares and Series C Preferred Shares with the Registrar of Corporations of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Under the BCA, the Statements of Designation are deemed amendments to our Articles of Incorporation. The Series A Statement of Designation was previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Report on Form 6-K filed on February 2, 2009 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The Series B Statement of Designation was previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to our Report on Form 6-K filed on June 4, 2010 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The Series C Statement of Designation was previously filed as Exhibit 3.3 to our Report on Form 8-A12B filed on January 28, 2011 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. The necessary actions required to change the rights of shareholders and the conditions governing the manner in which annual general meetings and special meetings of shareholders are convoked are described in our Bylaws filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Form F-1 (File No. 333-126762) filed with the SEC on July 21, 2005 and are hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 107 Table of Contents We have in place a shareholder rights agreement that would have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Seaspan. The shareholder rights agreement has been filed as exhibit 10.7 to our Form F-1/A (File No. 333-126762), filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005. In connection with the Series A Preferred Share Offering, we amended the shareholder rights agreement. Amendment No. 1 to the shareholder rights agreement is listed as an exhibit to this Annual Report and was previously filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our Report on Form 6-K on February 2, 2009. The shareholder rights agreement, as amended, is hereby incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. There are no limitations on the rights to own securities, including the rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights on the securities imposed by the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or by our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws. C. Material Contracts The following is a summary of each material contract, other than material contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, to which we are a party, for the two years immediately preceding the date of this Annual Report: (a) Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement dated January 22, 2009, by and among Seaspan Corporation and certain investors named therein, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on February 2, 2009. (b) Amended and Restated Management Agreement dated as of the 8th day of August, 2005 as amended and restated as of the 4th day of May, 2007 among Seaspan Corporation, Seaspan Management Services Limited, Seaspan Advisory Services Limited, Seaspan Ship Management Ltd. and Seaspan Crew Management Ltd., previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 6-K/A, filed with the SEC on October 10, 2007, as amended as of August 5, 2008. (c) Amended and Restated Credit Agreement between Seaspan Corporation and Arranged by Citigroup Global Markets Limited and Fortis Capital Corp., with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse, Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen, DnB Nor Bank ASA, Fortis Capital Corp. as Mandated Lead Arrangers with Fortis Capital Corp. as Facility Agent dated as of May 11, 2007, previously filed as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company’s Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2007. (d) Credit Facility Agreement providing for a Senior Secured Reducing Revolving Credit Facility of up to $365,000,000 dated May 19, 2006, among Seaspan Corporation, DnB Nor Bank ASA, as Sole Bookrunner, Administrative Agent and Security Agent, Credit Suisse and Fortis Capital Corp., as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen as documentation agent, previously filed as Exhibit 1 to the Company’s Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on June 12, 2006. (e) Amendment No. 1 to Credit Facility Agreement providing for a Senior Secured Reducing Revolving Credit Facility of up to $365,000,000, dated June 29, 2007, among Seaspan Corporation, DnB Nor Bank, ASA, as Sole Bookrunner, Administrative Agent and Security Agent, Credit Suisse and Fortis Capital Corp., as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen as documentation agent, previously filed as Exhibit 99.4 to the Company’s Form 6-K/A, filed with the SEC on October 10, 2007. (f) Amendment No. 2 to Credit Facility Agreement providing for a Senior Secured Reducing Revolving Credit Facility of up to $365,000,000 dated August 7, 2007, among Seaspan Corporation, DnB Nor Bank ASA, as Sole Bookrunner, Administrative Agent and Security Agent, Credit Suisse and Fortis Capital Corp., as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen as documentation agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.17 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (g) U.S. $218,400,000 Credit Facility Agreement dated October 16, 2006, among Seaspan Corporation, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited, as Security Trustee and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch as Facility Agent, previously filed as Exhibit 1 to the Company’s Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on October 23, 2006. 108 Table of Contents (h) U.S. $920,000,000 Reducing, Revolving Credit Facility dated August 8, 2007, among DnB Nor Bank ASA, Credit Suisse, The Export-Import Bank of China, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch, previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on August 9, 2007. (i) U.S. $150,000,000 Reducing Revolving Credit Facility Agreement dated December 28, 2007, for Seaspan Finance II Co. Ltd., Seaspan Finance III Co. Ltd. as borrowers with Seaspan Corporation, as guarantor, arranged by Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited and with Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited as facility agent, previously filed as Exhibit 4.20 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008 as amended on July 20, 2009. (j) U.S. $291,200,000 Credit Facility Agreement for Seaspan Corporation as Borrower, arranged by Fortis Bank S.A./N.V., New York Branch and The Export-Import Bank of Korea with Fortis Bank S.A./N.V., New York Branch as Facility Agent and Security Trustee and Fortis Bank S.A./N.V., New York Branch as Swap Agent dated March 17, 2008, previously filed as Exhibit 4.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (k) U.S. $235,300,000 Credit Facility Agreement dated March 31, 2008 for Seaspan Corporation as borrower, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation as mandated lead arranger, Sumitomo Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch as original lender, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited as security trustee, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch as facility agent and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch as agent for the finance parties under the KEIC policies, previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on April 4, 2008. (l) Lease Agreement between Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd. dated December 27, 2007 in respect of one 4520 TEU container carrier to be built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull No. 1851, previously filed as Exhibit 4.22 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (m) Lease Agreement between Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd. dated December 27, 2007 in respect of one 4520 TEU container carrier to be built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull No. 1852, previously filed as Exhibit 4.23 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (n) Lease Agreement between Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd. dated December 27, 2007 in respect of one 4520 TEU container carrier to be built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull No. 1853, previously filed as Exhibit 4.24 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (o) Lease Agreement between Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd. dated December 27, 2007 in respect of one 4520 TEU container carrier to be built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull No. 1854, previously filed as Exhibit 4.25 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (p) Lease Agreement between Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd. dated December 27, 2007 in respect of one 4520 TEU container carrier to be built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull No. 1855, previously filed as Exhibit 4.26 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (q) Amendment Agreement relating to Five Lease Agreements in respect of 4520 TEU Container Carriers to be Built at Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with Hull Nos. 1851, 1852, 1853, 1854 and 1855, dated February 4, 2007, among Peony Leasing Limited and Seaspan Finance I Co. Ltd., previously filed as Exhibit 4.27 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 24, 2008. (r) Amendment No. 1 to Shareholders Rights Agreement dated January 30, 2009, by and between Seaspan Corporation and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as Rights Agent, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on February 2, 2009. 109 Table of Contents (s) Registration Rights Agreement dated August 8, 2005, by and among Seaspan Corporation and certain investors named therein, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Amendment No. 2 to Form F-1, filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005. (t) Registration Rights Agreement dated January 30, 2009, by and among Seaspan Corporation and certain investors named therein, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on February 2, 2009. (u) Amendment No. 1 to Executive Employment Agreement with Gerry Wang, effective as of January 1, 2009, by and between Seaspan Ship Management Ltd. and Gerry Wang, previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on February 2, 2009. (v) Change of Control Severance Plan for Employees of Seaspan Ship Management Ltd., effective as of January 1, 2009, previously filed as Exhibit 4.34 to the Company’s Form 20-F, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2009. (w) Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Greater China Intermodal Investments LLC, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (x) Right of First Refusal Agreement among Seaspan Corporation, Greater China Intermodal Investments LLC and Blue Water Commerce, LLC, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (y) Right of First Offer Agreement between Seaspan Corporation and Blue Water Commerce, LLC, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.3 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (z) Executive Employment Agreement between Seaspan Corporation and Gerry Wang, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.4 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (aa) Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement between Seaspan Ship Management Ltd. and Gerry Wang, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (bb) Transaction Services Agreement between Seaspan Corporation and Gerry Wang, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.6 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (cc) Financial Services Agreement between Seaspan Corporation and Tiger Ventures Limited, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.7 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (dd) Amendment to Omnibus Agreement among Seaspan Corporation, Seaspan Management Services Limited, Seaspan Ship Management Ltd., Seaspan Advisory Services Limited, Norsk Pacific Steamship Company Limited and Seaspan Marine Corporation, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.8 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (ee) Graham Porter Letter Agreement, dated March 14, 2011, previously filed as Exhibit 4.9 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. (ff) Form of Registration Rights Agreement, previously filed as Exhibit 4.10 to Form 6-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2011. D. Exchange Controls We are not aware of any governmental laws, decrees or regulations in the Republic of The Marshall Islands that restrict the export or import of capital, including foreign exchange controls, or that affect the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of our securities. We are not aware of any limitations on the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote our securities imposed by the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. 110 Table of Contents E. Taxation U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations The following is a discussion of the material U.S. federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to our shareholders. This discussion is based upon the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, existing final and temporary regulations promulgated thereunder, or the Treasury Regulations, and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the U.S. federal income tax considerations to vary substantially from those described below. This discussion applies only to beneficial owners of our shares that own the shares as “capital assets” (generally, for investment purposes) and does not comment on all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to certain shareholders in light of their particular circumstances, such as shareholders subject to special tax rules (e.g., financial institutions, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, insurance companies, traders in securities that have elected the mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities, persons liable for alternative minimum tax, broker-dealers, tax-exempt organizations, partnerships or other pass-through entities and their investors or former citizens or long-term residents of the United States) or shareholders that hold our shares as part of a straddle, hedge, conversion, constructive sale or other integrated transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, all of whom may be subject to U.S. federal income tax rules that differ significantly from those summarized below. If a partnership or other entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our shares, the tax treatment of its partners generally will depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner in a partnership holding our shares, you should consult your tax advisor to determine the appropriate tax treatment to you of the partnership’s ownership of our shares. No ruling has been requested from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding any matter affecting us or our stockholders. Accordingly, statements made herein may not be sustained by a court if contested by the IRS. This discussion does not contain information regarding any U.S. state or local, estate, gift or alternative minimum tax considerations concerning the ownership or disposition of our shares. Shareholders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal, state, local and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders As used herein, the term “U.S. Holder” means a beneficial owner of our shares that is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien, a corporation, or other entity taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, that was created or organized under the laws of the United States, any state thereof, or the District of Columbia, an estate whose income is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, or a trust that either is subject to the supervision of a court within the United States and has one or more U.S. persons with authority to control all of its substantial decisions or has a valid election in effect under applicable Treasury Regulations to be treated as a United States person. Distributions on shares Subject to the discussion of passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, below, any distributions made by us with respect to our shares to a U.S. Holder generally will constitute dividends, which may be taxable as ordinary income or “qualified dividend income” as described in more detail in the paragraph below, to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits allocated to the U.S. Holder’s shares, as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits allocated to the U.S. Holder’s shares will be treated first as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the U.S. 111 Table of Contents Holder’s tax basis in our shares and thereafter as capital gain, which will be either long-term or short-term capital gain depending upon whether the U.S. Holder has held the shares for more than one year. U.S. Holders that are corporations generally will not be entitled to claim a dividends received deduction with respect to any distributions they receive from us. For purposes of computing allowable foreign tax credits for U.S. federal income tax purposes, dividends received with respect to our shares will be treated as foreign source income and generally will be treated as “passive category income.” Subject to holding-period requirements and certain other limitations, dividends received with respect to our publicly traded shares by a U.S. Holder who is an individual, trust or estate, or a U.S. Individual Holder, generally will be treated as qualified dividend income that is taxable to such U.S. Individual Holder at preferential capital gain tax rates (provided we are not classified as a PFIC for the taxable year during which the dividend is paid or the immediately preceding taxable year). In the absence of legislation extending the term of the preferential tax rates for qualified dividend income, all dividends received by a taxpayer in tax years beginning after December 31, 2012 will be taxed at rates applicable to ordinary income. Special rules may apply to any “extraordinary dividend” paid by us. Generally, an extraordinary dividend is a dividend with respect to a share of preferred stock that is equal to or in excess of 5% of a preferred shareholder’s adjusted tax basis (or fair market value upon the shareholder’s election) in such preferred share. In addition, extraordinary dividends include dividends received within a one year period that, in the aggregate, equal or exceed 20% of a shareholder’s adjusted tax basis (or fair market value). If we pay an extraordinary dividend on our shares that is treated as qualified dividend income, then any loss recognized by a U.S. Individual Holder from the sale or exchange of such shares will be treated as long-term capital loss to the extent of the amount of such dividend. Certain U.S. Individual Holders will be subject to a 3.8% tax on certain investment income, including dividends, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of Our Shares Subject to the discussion of PFICs, below, a U.S. Holder generally will recognize capital gain or loss upon a sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized by the U.S. Holder from such sale, exchange or other disposition and the U.S. Holder’s tax basis in such shares. Subject to the discussion of extraordinary dividends above, gain or loss recognized upon a sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares will be (i) treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. Holder’s holding period is greater than one year at the time of the sale, exchange or other disposition and (ii) generally treated as U.S. source income or loss, as applicable, for foreign tax credit purposes. Certain U.S. Holders, including individuals, may be eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax in respect of long-term capital gains. A U.S. Holder’s ability to deduct capital losses is subject to certain limitations. Certain U.S. Individual Holders will be subject to a 3.8% tax on certain investment income, including gain from the disposition of our shares, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. Consequences of Possible CFC Classification If CFC Shareholders (generally, U.S. Holders who each own, directly, indirectly or constructively, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding shares entitled to vote) own directly, indirectly or constructively more than 50 percent of either the total combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding shares entitled to vote or the total value of all of our outstanding shares, we generally would be treated as a controlled foreign corporation, or a CFC. 112 Table of Contents CFC Shareholders are treated as receiving current distributions of their respective share of certain income of the CFC without regard to any actual distributions. In addition, CFC Shareholders are subject to certain burdensome U.S. federal income tax and administrative requirements but generally are not also subject to the requirements generally applicable to shareholders of a PFIC (as discussed below). In addition, a person who is or has been a CFC Shareholder may recognize ordinary income on the disposition of shares of the CFC. Although we do not believe we are or will become a CFC, U.S. persons purchasing a substantial interest in us should consider the potential implications of being treated as a CFC Shareholder in the event we become a CFC in the future. The U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders who are not CFC Shareholders would not change in the event we become a CFC in the future. PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences Special and adverse U.S. federal income tax rules apply to a U.S. Holder that holds stock in a non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation and classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income (including the gross income of certain of our subsidiaries) consists of passive income (e.g., dividends, interest, capital gains and rents derived other than in the active conduct of a rental business), or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of the assets held by us (including the assets of certain of our subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC, income earned, or deemed earned, by us in connection with the performance of services would not constitute passive income. There are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from our time chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services, including the decision in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), which held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a foreign sales corporation provision of the Code. However, the IRS stated in an Action on Decision (AOD 2010-01) that it disagrees with, and will not acquiesce to, the way that the rental versus services framework was applied to the facts in the Tidewater decision, and in its discussion stated that the time charters at issue in Tidewater would be treated as producing services income for PFIC purposes. The IRS’s statement with respect to Tidewater cannot be relied upon or otherwise cited as precedent by taxpayers. Consequently, in the absence of any binding legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing PFICs, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court would not follow the Tidewater decision in interpreting the PFIC provisions of the Code. Nevertheless, based on the current composition of our assets and operations (and that of our subsidiaries), we intend to take the position that we are not now and have never been a PFIC. Further, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid being classified as a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, there can be no assurance that the nature of our operations, and therefore the composition of our income and assets, will remain the same in the future. Moreover, the market value of our stock may be treated as reflecting the value of our assets at any given time. Therefore, a decline in the market value of our stock (which is not within our control) may impact the determination of whether we are a PFIC. Because our status as a PFIC for any taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of the taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any future taxable year. As discussed more fully below, if we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, a U.S. Holder generally would be subject to one of three different U.S. income tax regimes, depending on whether the U.S. Holder makes certain elections. Taxation of U.S. Holders Making a Timely QEF Election If we were classified as a PFIC for a taxable year, a U.S. Holder making a timely election to treat us as a “Qualified Electing Fund” for U.S. tax purposes, or a QEF Election, would be required to report his pro rata 113 Table of Contents share of our ordinary earnings and our net capital gain, if any, for our taxable year that ends with or within the U.S. Holder’s taxable year regardless of whether the U.S. Holder received distributions from us in that year. Such pro rata share would not exceed the income allocable to dividends on our shares, although ordinary earnings could be allocated to a shareholder in the taxable year before the dividend is paid. Such income inclusions would not be eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income. The U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in our shares would be increased to reflect taxed but undistributed earnings and profits, and distributions of earnings and profits that had previously been taxed would not be taxed again when distributed but would result in a corresponding reduction in the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in our shares. The U.S. Holder generally would recognize capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares. A U.S. Holder would make a QEF Election with respect to any year that we are a PFIC by filing one copy of IRS Form 8621 with his U.S. federal income tax return and a second copy in accordance with the instructions to such form. However, a U.S. Holder’s QEF Election will not be effective unless we annually provide the U.S. Holder with certain information concerning our income and gain, calculated in accordance with the Code, to be included with the U.S. Holder’s U.S. federal income tax return. We have not provided our U.S. Holders with such information in prior taxable years and do not intend to provide such information in the current taxable year. Accordingly, you will not be able to make an effective QEF Election at this time. If, contrary to our expectations, we determine that we are or will be a PFIC for any taxable year, we will provide U.S. Holders with the information necessary to make an effective QEF Election with respect to our shares. Taxation of U.S. Holders Making a “Mark-to-Market” Election Alternatively, if we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year and, as we believe, our shares are treated as “marketable stock,” then a U.S. Holder would be allowed to make a “mark-to-market” election with respect to our shares, provided the U.S. Holder completes and files IRS Form 8621 in accordance with the relevant instructions. If that election is made, the U.S. Holder generally would include as ordinary income in each taxable year the excess, if any, of the fair market value of our shares at the end of the taxable year over the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in our shares. The U.S. Holder also would be permitted an ordinary loss in respect of the excess, if any, of the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in our shares over the fair market value thereof at the end of the taxable year (but only to the extent of the net amount previously included in income as a result of the mark-to-market election). The U.S. Holder’s tax basis in our shares would be adjusted to reflect any such income or loss recognized. Gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares would be treated as ordinary income, and any loss realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares would be treated as ordinary loss to the extent that such loss does not exceed the net mark-to-market gains previously included in income by the U.S. Holder. Because the mark-to-market election only applies to marketable stock, however, it would not apply to a U.S. Holder’s indirect interest in any of our subsidiaries that were also determined to be PFICs. Taxation of U.S. Holders Not Making a Timely QEF Election or Mark-to-Market Election Finally, if we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year and if a U.S. Holder did not make either a QEF Election or a mark-to-market election for that year, the U.S. Holder would be subject to special rules resulting in increased tax liability with respect to (i) any excess distribution (i.e., the portion of any distributions received by the U.S. Holder on our shares in a taxable year in excess of 125% of the average annual distributions received by the U.S. Holder in the three preceding taxable years, or, if shorter, the U.S. Holder’s holding period for our shares), and (ii) any gain realized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our shares. Under these special rules: • the excess distribution or gain would be allocated ratably over the U.S. Holder’s aggregate holding period for our shares; • the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the year we were first treated as a PFIC with respect to the U.S. Holder would be taxed as ordinary income; 114 Table of Contents • the amount allocated to each other taxable year would be subject to tax at the highest rate of tax in effect for the applicable class of taxpayers for that year, and • an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed with respect to the resulting tax attributable to each such other taxable year. If the U.S. Holder is an individual who dies while owning our shares, such shareholder’s successor generally would not receive a step-up in tax basis with respect to such shares. In addition, if we were treated as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder would be required to file an annual report with the IRS for that year with respect to the U.S. Holder’s shares. U.S. Holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the applicability, availability and advisability of, and procedure for, making QEF Elections, mark-to-market elections and other available elections with respect to us, and the U.S. federal income tax consequences of making such elections. U.S. Return Disclosure Requirements for U.S. Individual Holders U.S. individuals that hold certain specified foreign financial assets, which include stock in a foreign corporation, may be subject to additional U.S. return disclosure obligations (and related penalties for failure to disclose). Investors are encouraged to consult with their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of this disclosure requirement to their investment in our shares. U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Non-U.S. Holders A beneficial owner of our shares (other than a partnership or an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes) that is not a U.S. Holder is referred to herein as a non-U.S. Holder. Distributions In general, a non-U.S. Holder is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on distributions received from us with respect to our shares unless the distributions are effectively connected with the non-U.S. Holder’s conduct of a trade or business within the United States (and, if required by an applicable income tax treaty, are attributable to a permanent establishment that the non-U.S. Holder maintains in the United States). Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition In general, a non-U.S. Holder is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain resulting from the disposition of our shares unless (i) such gain is effectively connected with the non-U.S. Holder’s conduct of a trade or business in the United States (and, if required by an applicable income tax treaty, is attributable to a permanent establishment that the shareholder maintains in the United States) or (ii) the shareholder is an individual who is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year in which those shares are disposed (and certain other requirements are met). Backup Withholding and Information Reporting In general, payments of distributions or the proceeds of a disposition of our shares to a non-corporate U.S. Holder will be subject to information reporting requirements. These payments to a non-corporate U.S. Holder also may be subject to backup withholding if the U.S. Holder: • fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number; • is notified by the IRS that he has failed to report all interest or corporate distributions required to be shown on his U.S. federal income tax returns; or 115 Table of Contents • in certain circumstances, fails to comply with applicable certification requirements. Non-U.S. Holders may be required to establish their exemption from information reporting and backup withholding on payments made to them within the United States by certifying their status on an IRS Form W-8BEN, W-8ECI or W-8IMY, as applicable. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, a shareholder generally may obtain a credit for any amount withheld against his liability for U.S. federal income tax (and obtain a refund of any amounts withheld in excess of such liability) by timely filing U.S. federal income tax return with the IRS. Marshall Islands Tax Consequences Because we do not, and we do not expect that we will, conduct business or operations in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and because all documentation related to this offering will be executed outside of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, under current Marshall Islands law you will not be subject to Marshall Islands taxation or withholding on distributions, including upon a return of capital, we make to you as a shareholder. In addition, you will not be subject to Marshall Islands stamp, capital gains or other taxes on the purchase, ownership or disposition of shares, and you will not be required by the Republic of the Marshall Islands to file a tax return relating to the shares. Each prospective shareholder is urged to consult his tax counsel or other advisor with regard to the legal and tax consequences, under the laws of pertinent jurisdictions, including the Marshall Islands, of his investment in us. Further, it is the responsibility of each shareholder to file all state, local and non-U.S., as well as U.S. federal tax returns that may be required of him. Canadian Federal Income Tax Consequences The following discussion is a summary of the material Canadian federal income tax consequences under the Income Tax Act (Canada) (the Canada Tax Act), as of the date of this Annual Report, that we believe are relevant to holders of shares acquired in this offering who are, at all relevant times, for the purposes of the Canada Tax Act and the Canada-United States Tax Convention 1980 (the Canada-U.S. Treaty) resident only in the United States who are “qualifying persons” for purposes of the Canada-U.S. Treaty and who deal at arm’s length with us (U.S. Resident Holders). Holders that are United States limited liability companies should consult their own tax advisors. Subject to the assumptions below, under the Canada Tax Act, no taxes on income (including taxable capital gains and withholding tax on dividends) are payable by U.S. Resident Holders in respect of the acquisition, holding, disposition or redemption of our shares. This opinion is based upon the assumptions that we are not a resident of Canada and such U.S. Resident Holders do not have, and have not had, for the purposes of the Canada-U.S. Treaty, a permanent establishment in Canada to which such shares pertain and, in addition, do not use or hold and are not deemed or considered to use or hold such shares in the course of carrying on a business in Canada. We will not be resident in Canada in a taxation year if our principal business is the operation of ships that are used primarily in transporting passengers or goods in international traffic, all or substantially all of our gross revenue for the year consists of gross revenue from the operation of ships in transporting passengers or goods in that international traffic, and we were not granted articles of continuance in Canada before the end of the year. Please read “