Risk Factors” - “Risks Relating to Our Business” 9 Back to Index Management Agreement We have a management agreement with the Manager and Resource America under which the Manager provides the day-to-day management of our operations. The management agreement requires the Manager to manage our business affairs in conformity with the policies and the investment guidelines established by our board of directors. The Manager’s role as manager is under the supervision and direction of our board of directors. The Manager is responsible for the selection, purchase and sale of our portfolio investments, our financing activities, and providing us with investment advisory services. The Manager receives fees and is reimbursed for its expenses as follows: · A monthly base management fee equal to 1/12th of the amount of our equity multiplied by 1.50%. Under the management agreement, ‘‘equity’’ is equal to the net proceeds from any issuance of shares of common stock less offering related costs, plus or minus our retained earnings (excluding non-cash equity compensation incurred in current or prior periods) less any amounts we have paid for common stock repurchases. The calculation is adjusted for one-time events due to changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, which we refer to as GAAP, as well as other non-cash charges, upon approval of our independent directors. · Incentive compensation based on the product of (i) 25% of the dollar amount by which, (A) our net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) per common share (before non-cash equity compensation expense and incentive compensation), but after the base management fee, for a quarter (based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding) exceeds, (B) an amount equal to (1) the weighted average share price of shares of common stock in our offerings, multiplied by, (2) the greater of (a) 2.00% or (b) 0.50% plus one-fourth of the Ten Year Treasury rate (as defined in the management agreement) for such quarter, multiplied by, (ii) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the quarter. The calculation may be adjusted for one-time events due to changes in GAAP as well as other non-cash charges upon approval of our independent directors. · Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses and certain other costs incurred by the Manager that relate directly to us and our operations. Incentive compensation will be paid quarterly. Seventy-five percent (75%) of the incentive compensation will be paid in cash and at least twenty-five percent (25%) will be paid in the form of a stock award. The Manager may elect to receive more than 25% of its incentive compensation in stock. All shares are fully vested upon issuance. However, the Manager may not sell such shares for one year after the incentive compensation becomes due and payable unless the management agreement is terminated. Shares payable as incentive compensation are valued as follows: · if such shares are traded on a securities exchange, at the average of the closing prices of the shares on such exchange over the thirty day period ending three days prior to the issuance of such shares; · if such shares are actively traded over-the-counter, at the average of the closing bid or sales price as applicable over the thirty day period ending three days prior to the issuance of such shares; and · if there is no active market for such shares, at the fair market value as reasonably determined in good faith by our board of directors. The initial term of the management agreement expires on March 31, 2008 and will be automatically renewed for a one-year term on that date and each anniversary date thereafter. Our board of directors will review the Manager’s performance annually. After the initial term, the management agreement may be terminated annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based upon unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to us or a determination by our independent directors that the management fees payable to the Manager are not fair, subject to the Manager’s right to prevent such a compensation termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. Our board of directors must provide 180 days’ prior notice of any such termination. The Manager will be paid a termination fee equal to four times the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive compensation earned by the Manager during the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter before the date of termination. 10 Back to Index We may also terminate the management agreement for cause with 30 days’ prior written notice from our board of directors. No termination fee is payable with respect to a termination for cause. The management agreement defines cause as: · the Manager’s continued material breach of any provision of the management agreement following a period of 30 days after written notice thereof; · the Manager’s fraud, misappropriation of funds, or embezzlement against us; · the Manager’s gross negligence in the performance of its duties under the management agreement; · the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Manager, or the filing of a voluntary bankruptcy petition by the Manager; · the dissolution of the Manager; and · a change of control (as defined in the management agreement) of the Manager if a majority of our independent directors determines, at any point during the 18 months following the change of control, that the change of control was detrimental to the ability of the Manager to perform its duties in substantially the same manner conducted before the change of control. Cause does not include unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to our business. The management agreement will terminate at the Manager’s option, without payment of the termination fee, in the event we become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, with such termination deemed to occur immediately before such event. Regulatory Aspects of Our Investment Strategy: Exclusion from Regulation Under the Investment Company Act. We operate our business so as to be excluded from regulation under the Investment Company Act. Because we conduct our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. We believe that RCC Real Estate, Inc., the subsidiary that as of December 31, 2006 held all of our commercial real estate loan assets, is excluded from Investment Company Act regulation under Sections 3(c)(5)(C) and 3(c)(6), provisions designed for companies that do not issue redeemable securities and are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. To qualify for this exclusion, at least 55% of RCC Real Estate’s assets must consist of mortgage loans and other assets that are considered the functional equivalent of mortgage loans for purposes of the Investment Company Act, which we refer to as “qualifying real estate assets.” Moreover, 80% of RCC Real Estate’s assets must consist of qualifying real estate assets and other real estate-related assets. RCC Real Estate has not issued, and does not intend to issue, redeemable securities. We consider whole pool certificates to be qualifying real estate assets. A whole pool certificate is a certificate that represents the entire beneficial interest in an underlying pool of mortgage loans. By contrast, a certificate that represents less than the entire beneficial interest in the underlying mortgage loans is not considered to be a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the 55% test, but constitutes a real estate-related asset for purposes of the 80% test. 11 Back to Index We treat our investments in whole loans, specific types of B notes and specific types of mezzanine loans as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of determining our eligibility for the exclusion provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) to the extent such treatment is consistent with guidance provided by the SEC or its staff. We believe that SEC staff guidance allows us to treat B notes as qualifying real estate assets where we have unilateral rights to instruct the servicer to foreclose upon a defaulted mortgage loan, replace the servicer in the event the servicer, in its discretion, elects not to foreclose on such a loan, and purchase the A note in the event of a default on the mortgage loan. We believe, based upon an analysis of existing SEC staff guidance, that we may treat mezzanine loans as qualifying real estate assets where (i) the borrower is a special purpose bankruptcy remote entity whose sole purpose is to hold all of the ownership interests in another special purpose entity that owns commercial real property, (ii) both entities are organized as limited liability companies or limited partnerships, (iii) under their organizational documents and the loan documents, neither entity may engage in any other business, (iv) the ownership interests of either entity have no value apart from the underlying real property which is essentially the only asset held by the property-owning entity, (v) the value of the underlying property in excess of the amount of senior obligations is in excess of the amount of the mezzanine loan, (vi) the borrower pledges its entire interest in the property-owning entity to the lender which obtains a perfected security interest in the collateral, and (vii) the relative rights and priorities between the mezzanine lender and the senior lenders with respect to claims on the underlying property is set forth in an intercreditor agreement between the parties which gives the mezzanine lender certain cure and purchase rights in case there is a default on the senior loan. If the SEC staff provides guidance that these investments are not qualifying real estate assets, we will treat them, for purposes of determining our eligibility for the exclusion provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C), as real estate-related assets or miscellaneous assets, as appropriate. We do not expect that investments in non-whole pool loans, CDOs, other ABS, bank loans, equipment leases and notes, trust preferred securities and private equity will constitute qualifying real estate assets. Moreover, to the extent that these investments are not backed by mortgage loans or other interests in real estate, they will not constitute real estate-related assets. Instead, they will constitute miscellaneous assets, which can constitute no more than 20% of RCC Real Estate’s assets. To the extent RCC Real Estate holds its commercial real estate loan assets through wholly-owned CDO subsidiaries, RCC Real Estate also intends to conduct its operations so that it will not come within the definition of an investment company set forth in Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act because less than 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis will consist of “investment securities,” which we refer to as the 40% test. “Investment securities” exclude U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. Certain of the wholly-owned CDO subsidiaries of RCC Real Estate intend to rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) for their Investment Company Act exemption, with the result that RCC Real Estate’s interest in the CDO subsidiaries would not constitute “investment securities” for the purpose of the 40% test. We do not expect that our other subsidiaries, RCC Commercial, Inc. and Resource TRS, Inc. will qualify for the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exclusion. However, we do expect them to qualify for another exclusion under either Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7). As required by these exclusions, we will not allow either entity to make, or propose to make, a public offering of its securities, and we will require that each owner of securities issued by those entities be a “qualified purchaser” so that those entities are not investment companies subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we form other subsidiaries, we must ensure that they qualify for an exemption or exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. Moreover, we must ensure that Resource Capital Corp. itself qualifies for an exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. We will do so by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. At all times, we must ensure that Resource Capital Corp. meets the 40% test. Our interest in RCC Real Estate does not constitute an “investment security” for purposes of the 40% test, but our interests in RCC Commercial does, and our interest in Resource TRS may in the future, constitute “investment securities.” Accordingly, we must monitor the value of our interest in these two subsidiaries to ensure that the value of our interests in them never exceeds 40% of the value of our total assets. We will monitor the value of our interest in Resource TRS for tax purposes as well; the applicable tax rules require us to ensure that the total value of the stock and other securities of Resource TRS and any other taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, held directly or indirectly by us does not exceed 20% of the value of our total assets. These requirements may limit our flexibility in acquiring assets in the future. 12 Back to Index We have not received, nor have we sought, a no-action letter from the SEC regarding how our investment strategy fits within the exclusions from regulation under the Investment Company Act that we and our subsidiaries are using. To the extent that the SEC provides more specific or different guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, we may have to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC could provide additional flexibility to us or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the investment strategy we have chosen. Employees We have no direct employees. Under our management agreement, the Manager provides us with all management and support personnel and services necessary for our day-to-day operations. We depend upon the Manager and Resource America for personnel and administrative infrastructure. To provide its services, the Manager draws upon the expertise and experience of Resource America which, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, had 237 and 175 employees, respectively, involved in asset management, including 82 and 61 asset management professionals and 155 and 114 asset management support personnel, respectively. Corporate Governance and Internet Address We emphasize the importance of professional business conduct and ethics through our corporate governance initiatives. Our board of directors consists of a majority of independent directors; the audit, compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees of our board of directors are composed exclusively of independent directors. We have adopted corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct and ethics, which delineate our standards for our officers and directors, and employees of our manager. Our internet address is www.resourcecapitalcorp.com. We make available, free of charge through a link on our site, all reports filed with the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after such filing. Our site also contains our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, nominating and governance committee and compensation committee of our board of directors. 13 Back to Index ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section describes material risks affecting our business. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should carefully review the factors discussed below and the cautionary statements referred to in “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history. We may not be able to operate our business successfully or generate sufficient revenue to make distributions to our stockholders. We have only a limited operating history. We commenced operations on March 8, 2005. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not be able to execute our investment strategy or achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our ability to achieve returns for our stockholders depends on our ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay distributions and to achieve capital appreciation, and we cannot assure you that we will do either. We depend on the Manager and Resource America and may not find suitable replacements if the management agreement terminates. We have no employees. Our officers, portfolio managers, administrative personnel and support personnel are employees of Resource America. We have no separate facilities and completely rely on the Manager and, because the Manager has no direct employees, Resource America, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and investment strategies. If our management agreement terminates, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement for them. Moreover, we believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of the Manager’s and Resource America’s executive officers and senior portfolio managers, and in particular Edward E. Cohen, Jonathan Z. Cohen, Steven J. Kessler, Jeffrey D. Blomstrom, David J. Bryant, Thomas C. Elliott, Christopher D. Allen, Gretchen Bergstresser, David Bloom, Crit DeMent, Alan F. Feldman and Andrew P. Shook, whose continued service is not guaranteed. The departure of any of the executive officers or senior portfolio managers could harm our investment performance. The Manager and Resource America have only limited prior experience managing a REIT and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to successfully manage our business. The federal income tax laws impose numerous constraints on the operations of REITs. The executive officers of the Manager and Resource America have only limited prior experience managing assets under these constraints, which may hinder the Manager’s ability to achieve our investment objectives. We must pay the Manager the base management fee regardless of the performance of our portfolio. The Manager is entitled to receive a monthly base management fee equal to 1/12 of our equity, as defined in the management agreement, times 1.50%, regardless of the performance of our portfolio. The Manager’s entitlement to substantial non-performance based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. This in turn could hurt our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The incentive fee we pay the Manager may induce it to make riskier investments. In addition to its base management fee, the Manager will receive incentive compensation, payable quarterly, equal to 25% of the amount by which our net income, as defined in the management agreement, exceeds the weighted average prices for our common stock in all of our offerings multiplied by the greater of 2.00% or 0.50% plus one-fourth of the average 10-year treasury rate for such quarter, multiplied by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the quarter. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead the Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yields generally have higher risk of loss than investments with lower yields. 14 Back to Index The Manager manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board does not approve each investment decision, which may result in our making riskier investments. The Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. While our directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio, they do not review all of our proposed investments. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by the Manager. Furthermore, the Manager may use complex strategies, and transactions entered into by the Manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. The Manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of investments it makes for us. Poor investment decisions could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments than those currently targeted. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and our exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we may change our investment strategy, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in each class, or in the case of securities, in a single issuer, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations, all of which may reduce the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to make distributions to you. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from those described in this prospectus. Our management agreement was not negotiated at arm’s-length and, as a result, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with a third party. Our officers and two of our directors, Edward E. Cohen and Jonathan Z. Cohen, are officers or directors of the Manager and Resource America. As a consequence, our management agreement was not the result of arm’s-length negotiations and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Termination of the management agreement by us without cause is difficult and could be costly. Termination of our management agreement without cause is difficult and could be costly. We may terminate the management agreement without cause only annually following its initial term upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors or by a vote of the holders of at least a majority of our outstanding common stock, based upon unsatisfactory performance by the Manager that is materially detrimental to us or a determination that the management fee payable to the Manager is not fair. Moreover, with respect to a determination that the management fee is not fair, the Manager may prevent termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees. We must give not less than 180 days’ prior notice of any termination. Upon any termination without cause, the Manager will be paid a termination fee equal to four times the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive compensation earned by it during the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter before the date of termination. The Manager and Resource America may engage in activities that compete with us. Our management agreement does not prohibit the Manager or Resource America from investing in or managing entities that invest in asset classes that are the same as or similar to our targeted asset classes, except that they may not raise funds for, sponsor or advise any new publicly-traded REIT that invests primarily in mortgage-backed securities, or MBS, in the United States. The Manager’s policies regarding resolution of conflicts of interest may be varied by it if economic, market, regulatory or other conditions make their application economically inefficient or otherwise impractical. Moreover, our officers, other than our chief financial officer, and the officers, directors and employees of Resource America who provide services to us are not required to work full time on our affairs, and anticipate devoting significant time to the affairs of Resource America. As a result, there may be significant conflicts between us, on the one hand, and the Manager and Resource America on the other, regarding allocation of the Manager’s and Resource America’s resources to the management of our investment portfolio. 15 Back to Index Our Manager’s liability is limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Our Manager does not assume any responsibility under the management agreement other than to render the services called for under it, and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Resource America, the Manager, their directors, managers, officers, employees and affiliates will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders for acts performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their duties under the management agreement. We have agreed to indemnify the parties for all damages and claims arising from acts not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. We leverage our portfolio, which may reduce the return on our investments and cash available for distribution. We currently leverage our portfolio through securitizations, including CDOs, repurchase agreements, secured term facilities, warehouse facilities, issuance of trust preferred securities, bank credit facilities and other forms of borrowing. We are not limited in the amount of leverage we may use. As of December 31, 2006, our outstanding indebtedness was $1.5 billion and our leverage ratio was 4.6 times. The amount of leverage we use will vary depending on the availability of credit facilities, our ability to structure and market securitizations, the asset classes we leverage and the cash flows from the assets being financed. Our use of leverage subjects us to risks associated with debt financing, including the risks that: · the cash provided by our operating activities will not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, · the cost of financing will increase relative to the income from the assets financed, reducing the income we have available to pay distributions, and · our investments may have maturities that differ from the maturities of the related financing and, consequently, the risk that the terms of any refinancing we obtain will not be as favorable as the terms of existing financing. If we are unable to secure refinancing on acceptable terms, we may be forced to dispose of some of our assets upon disadvantageous terms or to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which may result in losses to us or reduce the cash flow available to meet our debt service obligations or to pay distributions. Financing that we obtain, and particularly securitization financing such as CDOs, may require us to maintain a specified ratio of the amount of the financing to the value of the assets financed. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls or calls for the pledge of additional assets which we will have to satisfy. We may not have sufficient funds or unpledged assets to satisfy any such calls. Growth in our business operations may strain the infrastructure of the Manager and Resource America, which could increase our costs, reduce our profitability and reduce our cash available for distribution and our stock price. Failure to grow may harm our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to grow, which will depend on the ability of the Manager to identify investments that meet our investment criteria and to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow also depends upon the ability of the Manager and Resource America to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage any personnel needed to discharge their duties to us under our management agreement. Our business operations may strain the management infrastructure of the Manager and Resource America, which could increase our costs, reduce our profitability and reduce either or both of the distributions we can pay or the price at which our common stock trades. 16 Back to Index We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, which may result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower net interest spread for our investments, and may inhibit the growth or delay the diversification of our portfolio. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we seek to make. We compete with other REITs, public and private investment funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial finance companies and other debt-oriented investors. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Other REITs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives substantially similar to ours. Some of our competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments or establish more investment sourcing relationships than us. As a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time or be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower net interest spread. If competition has these effects, our earnings and ability to pay distributions could be reduced. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding may decrease our profitability and our ability to make distributions, reducing the market price of our common stock. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments. Moreover, although Resource TRS, our TRS, may retain earnings as new capital, we are subject to REIT qualification requirements which limit the relative value of TRS stock and securities to the other assets owned by a REIT. Consequently, we will depend upon the availability of financing and additional capital to execute our investment strategy. If sufficient financing or capital is not available to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to achieve anticipated levels of profitability either due to the lack of funding or an increase in funding costs and our ability to make distributions and the price of our common stock may decline. We intend to finance some of our investments through CDOs in which we will retain the equity. CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. We seek to finance our commercial real estate-related loans, ABS-RMBS, CMBS and commercial finance assets through CDOs in which we will retain the equity interest. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity interests are subordinate in right of payment to all other securities issued by the CDO. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and other expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are excessive defaults by the issuers of the underlying collateral. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDO’s equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral. 17 Back to Index The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may reduce our cash flow. We expect that the terms of CDOs we may use to finance our portfolio will generally require the principal amount of the assets forming the collateral pool to exceed the principal balance of the CDOs, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” Typically, in a CDO if the delinquencies or losses exceed specified levels, which are generally established based on the analysis by the rating agencies or a financial guaranty insurer of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the CDOs, the amount of over-collateralization required increases or may be prevented from decreasing from what would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other tests, based on delinquency levels or other criteria, may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations. Before structuring any CDO issuances, we will not know the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant terms. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, we may be unable to comply with these terms, which would reduce or eliminate our cash flow from our CDO financings and, as a result, our net income and ability to make distributions. Declines in the market values of our investments may reduce periodic reported results, credit availability and our ability to make distributions. We classify a substantial portion of our assets for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” As a result, changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. A decline in these values will reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale asset is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may also adversely affect us in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we could have to sell the assets under adverse market conditions. As a result, a reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available to make distributions. Loss of our exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act would require significant changes in our operations and could reduce the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions. In order to be excluded from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must comply with the requirements of one or more of the exclusions from the definition of investment company. Because we conduct our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. If we fail to qualify for an exclusion, we could be required to restructure our activities or register as an investment company. Either alternative would require significant changes in our operations and could reduce the market price of our common stock. For example, if the market value of our investments in assets other than qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets were to increase beyond the levels permitted under the Investment Company Act exclusion upon which we rely or if assets in our portfolio were deemed not to be qualifying real estate assets as a result of SEC staff guidance, we might have to sell those assets or acquire additional qualifying real estate assets in order to maintain our exclusion. Any such sale or acquisition could occur under adverse market conditions. If we were required to register as an investment company, our use of leverage to fund our investment strategies would be significantly limited, which would limit our profitability and ability to make distributions, and we would become subject to substantial regulation concerning management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons, portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. 18 Back to Index Rapid changes in the values of our real-estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate-related investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exclusion from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent REIT qualification and Investment Company Act considerations. We are highly dependent on information systems. Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities which could harm our operating results, cause the market price of our common stock to decline and reduce our ability to make distributions. If we issue debt securities, the terms may restrict our ability to make cash distributions, require us to obtain approval to sell our assets or otherwise restrict our operations in ways which could make it difficult to execute our investment strategy and achieve our investment objectives. Any debt securities we may issue in the future will likely be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, to accelerate payments due under the indenture, to restrict distributions, and to require approval to sell assets. These covenants could make it more difficult to execute our investment strategy and achieve our investment objectives. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our ABS or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our ABS or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Investments Increases in interest rates and other factors could reduce the value of our investments, result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce our ability to pay distributions. A significant risk associated with our investment in commercial real estate-related loans, ABS-RMBS, CMBS and other debt instruments is the risk that either or both of long-term and short-term interest rates increase significantly. If long-term rates increase, the market value of our assets would decline. Even if the mortgages underlying any agency ABS-RMBS we may own in the future are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, those guarantees do not protect against declines in market value of the related ABS-RMBS caused by interest rate changes. At the same time, because of the short-term nature of the financing we expect to use to acquire our investments and to hold ABS-RMBS, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase our interest expense, reducing our net interest spread. This could result in reduced profitability and distributions. 19 Back to Index We invest in ABS-RMBS backed by sub-prime residential mortgage loans which are subject to higher delinquency, foreclosure and loss rates than mid-prime or prime residential mortgage loans, which could result in losses to us. Sub-prime residential mortgage loans are made to borrowers who have poor or limited credit histories and, as a result, do not qualify for traditional mortgage products. Because of their credit histories, sub-prime borrowers have materially higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss compared to mid-prime and prime credit quality borrowers. As a result, investments in ABS-RMBS backed by sub-prime residential mortgage loans may have higher risk of loss than investments in ABS-RMBS backed by mid-prime and prime residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2006, approximately $179.1 million (44.8%) of our RMBS portfolio, the underlying assets of Ischus CDO II is invested in such securities. Investing in mezzanine debt and mezzanine or other subordinated tranches of CMBS, bank loans and other ABS involves greater risks of loss than senior secured debt investments. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we will invest in mezzanine debt and expect to invest in mezzanine or other subordinated tranches of CMBS, bank loans and other ABS. These types of investments carry a higher degree of risk of loss than senior secured debt investments such as our ABS-RMBS investments because, in the event of default and foreclosure, holders of senior liens will be paid in full before mezzanine investors and, depending on the value of the underlying collateral at the time of foreclosure, there may not be sufficient assets to pay all or any part of amounts owed to mezzanine investors. Moreover, our mezzanine and other subordinate debt investments may have higher LTV ratios than conventional senior lien financing, resulting in less equity in the collateral and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If a borrower defaults or declares bankruptcy, we may be subject to agreements restricting or eliminating our rights as a creditor, including rights to call a default, foreclose on collateral, accelerate maturity or control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, the prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to economic downturns or individual issuer developments. An economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of instruments underlying the securities to make principal and interest payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support relating to the securities’ structure may not be sufficient to protect us against loss of our principal. The B notes in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A B note is a loan typically secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and subordinated to a senior note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B note owners after payment to the senior note owners. Since each transaction is privately negotiated, B notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B note investment we will make. Further, B notes typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. B notes also are less liquid than other forms of commercial real estate debt investments, such as CMBS, and, as a result we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with the subordinate position of our B note investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. 20 Back to Index Our assets likely will include trust preferred securities of financial institutions, or CDOs collateralized by these securities, which may have greater risks of loss than senior secured loans. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we expect that we will invest in the trust preferred securities of financial institutions or CDOs collateralized by these securities. Investing in these securities will involve a higher degree of risk than investing in senior secured loans, including the following: · Trust preferred securities, which are issued by a special purpose trust, typically are collateralized by a junior subordinated debenture of the financial institution and that institution’s guarantee, and thus are subordinate and junior in right of payment to most of the financial institution’s other debt. · Trust preferred securities often will permit the financial institution to defer interest payments on its junior subordinated debenture, deferring dividend payments by the trust on the trust preferred securities, for specified periods. · If trust preferred securities are collateralized by junior subordinated debentures issued by the financial institution’s holding company, dividend payments may be affected by regulatory limitations on the amount of dividends, other distributions or loans a financial institution can make to its holding company, which typically are the holding company’s principal sources of funds for meeting its obligations, including its obligations under the junior subordinated debentures. As a result, a holder of trust preferred securities may be limited in its ability both to enforce its payment rights and to recover its investment upon default. Moreover, any deferral of dividends on the trust preferred securities in which we may invest will reduce the funds available to us to make distributions which, in turn, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We invest in small- and middle-ticket equipment leases and notes to small- and mid-size businesses which may have greater risks of default than leases or loans to larger businesses. We invest in small- and middle-ticket equipment leases and notes. Many of the obligors are small- to mid-size businesses. As a result, we may be subject to higher risks of lease default than if our obligors were larger businesses. While we will seek to repossess and re-lease or sell the equipment subject to a defaulted lease or note, we may not be able to do so on advantageous terms. If an obligor files for protection under the bankruptcy laws, we may experience difficulties and delays in recovering the equipment. Moreover, the equipment may be returned in poor condition and we may be unable to enforce important lease provisions against an insolvent obligor, including the contract provisions that require the obligor to return the equipment in good condition. In some cases, an obligor’s deteriorating financial condition may make trying to recover what the obligor owes impractical. The costs of recovering equipment upon an obligor’s default, enforcing the obligor’s obligations under the lease, and transporting, storing, repairing and finding a new obligor or purchaser for the equipment may be high. Higher than expected lease defaults will result in a loss of anticipated revenues. These losses may impair our ability to make distributions and reduce the market price of our common stock. Private equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. Private equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the private equity in accordance with the terms of the security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. 21 Back to Index Some of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value as estimated by our management and reviewed by our board of directors and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our portfolio investments will be in the form of securities that are not publicly traded, including the securities of Resource TRS. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We will value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined under policies approved by our board of directors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock would likely decrease if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Some of our investments may be illiquid, which may result in our realizing less than their recorded value should we need to sell such investments quickly. We have made investments, and expect to make additional investments, in securities that are not publicly traded. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we, the Manager or Resource America has or could be attributed with material non-public information regarding such business entity. We may enter into repurchase or warehouse agreements in connection with our planned investment in the equity securities of CDOs and if the investment in the CDO is not consummated, the collateral will be sold and we must bear any loss resulting from the purchase price of the collateral exceeding the sale price up to the amount of our investment or guaranty. In connection with our investment in CDOs that the Manager structures for us, we enter into repurchase or warehouse agreements with investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the institutions will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be transferred to the CDOs. The Manager will select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the institution would liquidate the collateral and we would have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price up to the amount of our investment or guaranty, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the collateral is sold before the consummation, we will have to bear any resulting loss on the sale up to the amount of our investment or guaranty. At December 31, 2006, we have $120.5 million outstanding under three of our repurchase agreements, with a maximum amount at risk of $29.7 million. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for a CDO issuance, or may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. During the accumulation period for our CDOs, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets, we may have to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets at a price that could result in a loss of all or a portion of the cash and other collateral backing our purchase commitment or require us to make payments under any guaranties we have given. 22 Back to Index We may have to repurchase assets that we have sold in connection with CDOs and other securitizations. If any of the assets that we originate or acquire and sell or securitize does not comply with representations and warranties that we make about their characteristics, the borrowers and the underlying assets, we may have to purchase these assets from the CDO or securitization vehicle, or replace them with substitute loans or securities. In addition, in the case of loans or securities that we have sold instead of retained, we may have to indemnify purchasers for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially reduce our liquidity, earnings and ability to make distributions. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We use short-term borrowings, principally repurchase agreements, to initially finance our commercial real estate portfolio. As these short-term borrowings mature, we will be required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. At December 31, 2006, our repurchase agreements had a weighted average maturity of 16 days. We also use a secured term facility to finance our direct financing leases and notes. At December 31, 2006, this facility had a weighted average maturity of 3.2 years. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between the income on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce returns on our assets, which would reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Termination events contained in our repurchase agreements increase the possibility that we will be unable to maintain adequate capital and funding and may reduce cash available for distribution. The occurrence of an event of default under our repurchase agreements may cause commercial real estate investment transactions to be terminated early. Events of default include failure to complete an agreed upon repurchase transaction, failure to comply with margin and margin repayment requirements, the commencement by us of a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding or filing of a petition against us under bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, or admission of an inability to, or intention not to, perform our obligation under the agreement. The occurrence of an event of default or termination event would give our counterparty the option to terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If outstanding repurchase transactions terminate and we are unable to negotiate more favorable funding terms, our financing costs will increase. This may reduce the amount of capital we have available for investing and/or may impair our ability to make distributions. In addition, we may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of the term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty must resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically 30-90 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty is less than the market value of those securities, typically about 60% to 85% of that value, if the counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we will incur a loss on the transaction. We will also incur a loss if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we will have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could reduce our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 23 Back to Index A prolonged economic slowdown, recession or decline in real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions or declines in real estate values, which could lead to financial losses on our investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and reduce or eliminate our earnings and ability to make distributions. We may be exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may take title to real estate through foreclosure on collateral underlying real estate investments. If we do take title to any property, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to it. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs they incur as a result of environmental contamination, or may have to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial and could reduce our income and ability to make distributions. Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging transactions. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our interest rate hedging activity varies in scope depending upon market conditions relating to, among other factors, the level and volatility of interest rates and the type of assets we hold. There are practical limitations on our ability to insulate our portfolio from all of the negative consequences associated with changes in short-term interest rates, including: · Available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk against which we seek protection. · The duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability. · Interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. Hedging costs may include structuring and legal fees and fees payable to hedge counterparties to execute the hedge transaction. · Losses on a hedge position may reduce the cash available to make distributions to stockholders, and may exceed the amounts invested in the hedge position. · The amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions, other than through a TRS, is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs. · The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction. · The party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We have adopted written policies and procedures governing our hedging activities. Under these policies and procedures, our board of directors is responsible for approving the types of hedging instruments we may use, absolute limits on the notional amount and term of a hedging instrument and parameters for the credit-worthiness of hedge counterparties. The senior managers responsible for each of our targeted asset classes are responsible for executing transactions using the services of independent interest rate risk management consultants, documenting the transactions, monitoring the valuation and effectiveness of the hedges, and providing reports concerning our hedging activities and the valuation and effectiveness of our hedges, to the audit committee of our board of directors no less often than quarterly. Our guidelines also require us to engage one or more experienced third party advisors to provide us with assistance in the identification of interest rate risks, the analysis, selection and timing of risk protection strategies, the administration and negotiation of hedge documentation, settlement or disposition of hedges, compliance with hedge accounting requirements and measurement of hedge effectiveness and valuation. 24 Back to Index Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of the positions or prevent losses if the values of the positions decline. Hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, we may not be able to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is generally anticipated by the market. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on the Manager’s ability to correctly predict movements of interest rates. Therefore, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks of default by the hedging counterparty and illiquidity. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into puts and calls on securities or indices of securities, interest rate swaps, caps and collars, including options and forward contracts, and interest rate lock agreements, principally Treasury lock agreements, to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows from our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we entered into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may have to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into hedging instruments that could expose us to unexpected losses in the future. We may enter into hedging instruments that would require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, for example, upon the early termination of the instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the instrument. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. 25 Back to Index Increased levels of prepayments on our MBS might decrease our net interest income or result in a net loss. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the MBS that we acquire. We generally will receive payments from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When we acquire MBS, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate generating an expected yield. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this results in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities and may reduce the expected yield. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by other factors, including conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgage loans. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. As a result, in periods of declining rates, owners of MBS may have more money to reinvest than anticipated and be required to invest it at the lower prevailing market rates. Conversely, in periods of rising rates, owners of MBS may have less money to invest than anticipated at the higher prevailing rates. This volatility in prepayment rates also may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our MBS portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution. Our real estate debt investments will be subject to the risks inherent in the real estate securing or underlying those investments which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by, and mezzanine loans depend on, the performance of the underlying, multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss, that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by or dependent upon an income-producing property typically depends primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income producing property can be affected by, among other things: · tenant mix, success of tenant businesses and property management decisions, · property location and condition, · competition from comparable types of properties, · changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, · any need to address environmental contamination at the property, · the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, · changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, · declines in regional or local real estate values, · declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, · increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, · transitional nature of a property being converted to an alternate use; · increases in costs of construction material; · changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, and · acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay these loans is dependent upon the borrower’s income or assets. A number of factors, including a national, regional or local economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. Economic problems specific to a borrower, such as loss of a job or medical problems, may also impair a borrower’s ability to repay his or her loan. 26 Back to Index In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which would reduce our cash flow from operations. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could reduce our return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy as determined by the bankruptcy court, and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. For a discussion of other risks associated with mezzanine loans, see “—Investing in mezzanine debt or mezzanine or other subordinated tranches of CMBS, bank loans and other ABS involves greater risks of loss than senior secured debt instruments.” Our assets will include bank loans, other ABS and private equity investments, which will carry higher risks of loss than our real estate-related portfolio. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we invest in bank loans and other ABS. Our bank loan investments or our other ABS investments, which are principally backed by small business and bank loans, may not be secured by mortgages or other liens on assets or may involve higher LTV ratios than our real estate-related investments. Our bank loan investments, and our ABS backed by loans, may involve one or more loans that have an interest-only payment schedule or a schedule that does not fully amortize principal over the term of the loan, which will make repayment of the loan depend upon the borrower’s liquidity or ability to refinance the loan at maturity. Numerous factors affect a borrower’s ability to repay or refinance loans at maturity, including national and local economic conditions, a downturn in a borrower’s industry, loss of one or more principal customers and conditions in the credit markets. A deterioration in a company’s financial condition or prospects may be accompanied by a deterioration in the collateral for the bank loan or any ABS backed by such company’s loans. In addition, private equity investments may also have a greater risk of loss than senior secured or other financing since such investments are subordinate to debt of the issuer, are not secured by property underlying the investment and may be illiquid, depending upon the existence of a market for the issuer’s securities, the length of time we have held the investment and any rights we may have to require registration under the Securities Act. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an entity’s liabilities and other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in the securities of any issuer, we will assess the strength and skills of the issuer’s management, the value of any collateral securing debt securities, the ability of the issuer and the collateral to service the debt and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we will rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly-organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities or, with respect to debt securities, any underlying collateral. Our due diligence processes, however, may not uncover all facts that may be relevant to an investment decision. 27 Back to Index Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: · There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. For purposes of assisting us in maintaining our REIT qualification under the Internal Revenue Code, our charter generally prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding capital stock. This restriction may: - discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our board of directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or - result in shares issued or transferred in violation of such restrictions being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary, resulting in the forfeiture of those shares. · Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series and issue common or preferred stock having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board. Thus, our board could authorize the issuance of stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price. · Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change in control of us, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that “control shares” of a corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. The act defines “control shares” as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specific exceptions. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholders’ meeting or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as required by the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act then, subject to specific conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholders’ meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. However, our board of directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal this exemption. 28 Back to Index Business combinations. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transferor issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: · any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or · an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which such person otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: · 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and · two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The statute permits exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: · actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or · a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter authorizes us to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present or former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. 29 Back to Index Our right to take action against the Manager is limited. The obligation of the Manager under the management agreement is to render its services in good faith. It will not be responsible for any action taken by our board of directors or investment committee in following or declining to follow its advice and recommendations. Furthermore, as discussed above under “—Risks Related to Our Business,” it will be difficult and costly for us to terminate the management agreement without cause. In addition, we will indemnify the Manager, Resource America and their officers and affiliates for any actions taken by them in good faith. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may in the future use uninvested offering proceeds or borrowed funds to make distributions. We expect to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be impaired by the risk factors described in this report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated taxable earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder’s tax basis in its investment. Although we currently do not expect that we will do so, we have in the past and may in the future also use proceeds from any offering of our securities that we have not invested or borrowed funds to make distributions. During 2006, we borrowed funds and used uninvested proceeds to make distributions and as a result, our distributions exceeded GAAP net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 by $10.9 million. Our GAAP net income included a loss on the sale of our agency ABS-RMBS portfolio, net of hedging activities, of $8.8 million as a result of our portfolio restructuring in the third quarter of 2006. If we use uninvested offering proceeds to pay distributions in the future, we will have less funds available for investment and, as a result, our earnings and cash available for distribution would be less than we might otherwise have realized had such funds been invested. Similarly, if we borrow to fund distributions, our future interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our future earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been. Tax Risks Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our common stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. In particular, at least 75% of our assets at the end of each calendar quarter must consist of real estate assets, government securities, cash and cash items. For this purpose, “real estate assets” generally include interests in real property, such as land, buildings, leasehold interests in real property, stock of other entities that qualify as REITs, interests in mortgage loans secured by real property, investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following the receipt of new capital and regular or residual interests in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC. In addition, the amount of securities of a single issuer, other than a TRS, that we hold must generally not exceed either 5% of the value of our gross assets or 10% of the vote or value of such issuer’s outstanding securities. 30 Back to Index Certain of the assets that we hold or intend to hold, including interests in CDOs or corporate leveraged loans, are not qualified and will not be qualified real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests. ABS-RMBS and CMBS securities should generally qualify as real estate assets. However, to the extent that we own non-REMIC collateralized mortgage obligations or other debt instruments secured by mortgage loans (rather than by real property) or secured by non-real estate assets, or debt securities that are not secured by mortgages on real property, those securities are likely not qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset test, and will not produce qualifying real estate income. Further, whether securities held by warehouse lenders or financed using repurchase agreements are treated as qualifying assets or as generating qualifying real estate income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests depends on the terms of the warehouse or repurchase financing arrangement. We generally will be treated as the owner of any assets that collateralize CDO transactions to the extent that we retain all of the equity of the securitization vehicle and do not make an election to treat such securitization vehicle as a TRS, as described in further detail below. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the REIT asset and gross income requirements by holding certain assets through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. Our qualification as a REIT and exemption from U.S. federal income tax with respect to certain assets may be dependent on the accuracy of legal opinions or advice rendered or given or statements by the issuers of securities in which we invest, and the inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate level tax. When purchasing securities, we have relied and may rely on opinions or advice of counsel for the issuer of such securities, or statements, made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether such securities represent debt or equity securities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and also to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income which qualifies under the 75% REIT gross income test. In addition, when purchasing CDO equity, we have relied and may rely on opinions or advice of counsel regarding the qualification of interests in the debt of such CDOs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The inaccuracy of any such opinions, advice or statements may adversely affect our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate-level tax. We may realize excess inclusion income that would increase our tax liability and that of our stockholders. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by net operating losses of the stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. Excess inclusion income could result if we hold a residual interest in a REMIC. Excess inclusion income also could be generated if we issue debt obligations, such as certain CDOs, with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments that we received on our mortgage related securities securing those debt obligations, i.e., if we were to own an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. While we do not expect to acquire significant amounts of residual interests in REMICs, we do own residual interests in taxable mortgage pools, which means that we will likely generate significant amounts of excess inclusion income. If we realize excess inclusion income, we will be taxed at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of such income that is allocable to the percentage of our stock held in record name by “disqualified organizations,” which are generally cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. To the extent that our stock owned by “disqualified organizations” is held in record name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or other nominee would be liable for the corporate level tax on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the stock held by the broker/dealer or other nominee on behalf of “disqualified organizations.” We expect that disqualified organizations will own our stock. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company or other pass through entity owning stock in record name will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to its owners that are disqualified organizations. Finally, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate corporations, for federal income tax purposes that cannot be included in any consolidated corporate tax return. 31 Back to Index Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner that has enabled us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended on December 31, 2005. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax on our taxable income, at regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders would not be deductible in computing our taxable income. Corporate tax liability would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Under some circumstances, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for the statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and not including net capital gains, to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, our taxable mortgage pool securitizations will be treated as separate corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, in each calendar year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: · 85% of our ordinary income for that year; · 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and · 100% our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to distribute all or substantially all of our net taxable income to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. There is no requirement that a domestic TRS distribute its after-tax net income to its parent REIT or their stockholders and Resource TRS may determine not to make any distributions to us. However, non-U.S. TRSs, such as Apidos CDO I and Apidos CDO III, which we discuss in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations,” will generally be deemed to distribute their earnings to us on an annual basis for federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether such TRSs actually distribute their earnings. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our REIT taxable income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. 32 Back to Index If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, they will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock. To the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock, which will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. To the extent the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this excess amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. For risks related to the use of uninvested offering proceeds or borrowings to fund distributions to stockholders, see “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future.” Our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs will be limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn specified types of income or hold specified assets that would not be qualifying income or assets if earned or held directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns, whether or not it distributes that income to us. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Resource TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. Income that is not distributed to us by Resource TRS will not be subject to the REIT 90% distribution requirement and therefore will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. We anticipate that the aggregate value of the securities of Resource TRS, together with the securities we hold in our other TRSs, including Apidos CDO I and Apidos CDO III, will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets, including our TRS securities. We will monitor the compliance of our investments in TRSs with the rules relating to value of assets and transactions not on an arm’s-length basis. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to comply with such rules. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from qualifying and non-qualifying hedges of our borrowings, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, cannot exceed 25% of our gross income. In addition, our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income determined without regard to income from qualifying hedges. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through Resource TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. 33 Back to Index The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were able to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Tax law changes could depress the market price of our common stock. The federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law or administrative interpretation, will become effective and any such law or interpretation may take effect retroactively. Tax law changes could depress our stock price or restrict our operations. Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates provided for under current law. Dividends paid by REITs are generally not eligible for the reduced 15% maximum tax rate for dividends paid to individuals under recently enacted tax legislation. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends to which more favorable rates apply, which could reduce the value of the stocks of REITs. We may lose our REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenges our characterization of income inclusions from our foreign TRSs. We likely will be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our foreign TRSs, including from our current and contemplated equity investments in CDOs, such as our investment in Apidos CDO I and Apidos CDO III. We intend to treat certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test applicable to REITs but not for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and other enumerated classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in our foreign TRSs are technically neither dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. However, based on advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions, to the extent distributed by a foreign TRS in the year accrued, as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that it is not qualifying income. In the event that it was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to the income to the extent it and other nonqualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income and/or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. See “Federal Income Tax Consequences of Our Qualification as a REIT.” In addition, if such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in our foreign TRSs to ensure that the income recognized by us from our foreign TRSs or such other corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income, or cease to qualify as a REIT. 34 Back to Index The failure of a loan subject to a repurchase agreement or a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into and we intend to continue to enter into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sell certain of our loan assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we have been and will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as the owner of the loan assets that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that the agreement may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the loan assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, we have acquired and will continue to acquire mezzanine loans, which are loans secured by equity interest in a partnership or limited liability company that directly or indirectly owns real property. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets each of the requirements contained in the Revenue Procedure, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. Although the Revenue Procedure provides a safe harbor on which taxpayers may rely, it does not prescribe rules of substantive tax law. We have acquired and will continue to acquire mezzanine loans that may not meet all of the requirements for reliance on this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge the loan’s treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, and if the challenge were sustained, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 