Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make in this filing, and other written or oral statements made by or on our behalf, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Words or phrases such as “should result,” “are expected to,” “we anticipate,” “we estimate,” “we project,” “we believe,” or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. We believe that these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Such statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise. The following risk factors, as well as the risks detailed in the “Business” section and others that we may add from time to time, are some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in each of the last two fiscal years and in all but two years since our inception in 1992. Our net losses were $30.7 million and $9.1 million for the years ended December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. We may continue to incur net losses, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in future periods. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses to grow our business and the number of our coffeehouses. Accordingly, we will need to increase our net sales at a rate greater than our expenses to achieve profitability. We cannot predict whether we will become profitable in future periods. Furthermore, we may not be able to return to profitability if we are unable to terminate, sublease or otherwise dispose of any underperforming locations. Even if we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain profitability. 7 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to grow our business, which subjects us to the risks that we may be unable to maintain or grow our business as planned or that our shareholders may be subject to substantial additional dilution. We are also subject to protective covenants that may restrict growth potential. We may need to raise capital in order to continue to expand our business and open new coffeehouses. We do not know if we will be able to raise additional financing or financing on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our business or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible or exchangeable securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced. These newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requirements that we comply with certain financial ratios. These covenants limit our ability to take various actions without the consent of our lenders, including the incurrence of additional debt, the guaranteeing of certain indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, paying dividends and making distributions or other restricted payments, including investments. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Failure to maintain the covenants required by our revolving credit facility could result in acceleration of our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility. Our inability in the future to comply with the covenant requirements under the revolving credit facility and to obtain a waiver of such violations could impair our liquidity and limit our ability to operate. We may need to record additional impairment losses in the future if our stores’ operating performances do not improve. We continually review our coffeehouses operating performances and evaluate the carrying value of their assets in relation to their expected future cash flows. In those cases where circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the applicable assets may not be recoverable, we record an impairment loss related to the long-lived assets. We recorded an impairment loss of $7.9 million and $10.4 million related to 27 and 36 coffeehouses for the fourth quarter 2007 and fiscal year 2007, respectively. If our coffeehouse operating performance does not improve in the future, the carrying value of our coffeehouse assets may not be recoverable in light of future expected cash flows. This may result in our need to record additional impairment losses in certain markets where our coffeehouses operate that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are actively managing our leased real estate portfolio and closing those underperforming coffeehouses where we have been able to negotiate an appropriate termination or sublease the locations to third parties. However, we may not be able to negotiate favorable lease termination terms or find third parties who desire to sublease these locations. As a result, we may continue to incur losses at some underperforming coffeehouses. Many factors impact our ability to close underperforming coffeehouses, including, local economic conditions, the amount of local real estate available for rent and the general real estate market deterioration. We may not be able to renew leases or control rent increases at our retail locations or obtain leases for new coffeehouses. Our coffeehouses are all leased. At the end of the term of the lease, we may be forced to find a new location to lease or close the coffeehouse. Any of these events could adversely affect our profitability. We compete with numerous other retailers and restaurants for coffeehouse sites in the highly competitive market for retail real estate. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases, or renew existing ones, on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our net sales and brand-building initiatives. 8 Table of Contents The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Our stock price has been, and is expected to continue to be, highly volatile. There could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price as a result of: • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; • a decline in any month or quarter of our net sales or earnings; • a decline in any month or quarter of comparable sales; • a deviation in our net sales, earning or comparable store sales from levels expected by securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; or • changes in market valuation of other companies in the same or similar markets. In addition, the Nasdaq Global Marketsm has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. Future market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. Such volatility may limit our future ability to raise additional capital. Recent changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management. On November 12, 2007, Rosalyn Mallet was appointed our interim Chief Executive Officer (following the resignation of Michael Coles), and on January 10, 2008, our former Chief Financial Officer resigned. We appointed Kaye O’Leary as our acting Chief Financial Officer, effective as of January 11, 2008. These changes in our management may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Moreover, our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel going forward. If we are unable to identify and retain effective permanent replacements for our key executives, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in Minnesota and the Upper Midwest. As of December 30, 2007, 208, or 42%, of our coffeehouses were located in Minnesota. An additional 84, or 17%, were located in the states of North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin. Our Minnesota coffeehouses accounted for approximately half of our company-operated coffeehouse net sales during the year ended December 30, 2007. Our Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin company-operated coffeehouses accounted for approximately 68% of our coffeehouse net sales during the year ended December 30, 2007. As a result, any adverse trends and economic conditions in these states have a disproportionate adverse impact on our overall results. In addition, given our geographic concentration in these states, negative publicity in the region regarding any of our coffeehouses could have a material effect on our business and operations throughout the region, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, new or revised laws or regulations, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or disruptions in the supply of food products Complaints or claims by current, former or prospective employees could adversely affect us. We are subject to the a variety of regulations which govern such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. A material increase in the minimum wage and other statutory benefits could adversely affect our operating results. We have been, and in the future may be, the subject of complaints or litigation from current, former or prospective employees from time to time. These complaints or litigation involving current, former or prospective employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and might potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more fiscal periods. 9 Table of Contents Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of shares of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with disclosure controls and procedures discussed above, are designed to prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of shares of our common stock. We have a significant number of options outstanding to acquire shares of our common stock that, when exercised, will dilute existing shareholders and could decrease the market price of our common stock. We have a significant number of outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock at various price ranges. In addition to the dilution our shareholders will experience once these options are exercised, our shareholders could experience a decline in the market price of our common stock from the sale of these shares in the public market. The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” issued in December 2004 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, requires us to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings for employee stock option grants commencing with our first quarter of 2006. The negative impact of future equity based grants on the market price of our common stock may be exacerbated by our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which has required us to increase significantly the amount of compensation expense we record upon such grants. Changes in other existing financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to the impact on our earnings of SFAS No. 123R, other changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Structure Arcapita has substantial control over us, and could limit other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval and may support corporate actions that conflict with other shareholders’ interests. Our largest shareholder is an affiliate of Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c), a global investment group founded in 1997 with offices in Atlanta, London and Bahrain. We refer to Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c) and its affiliates collectively as either Arcapita or our majority shareholder in the Form 10-K. Arcapita beneficially owns 11,672,245 shares, or approximately 60.3%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 30, 2007. Arcapita’s ownership of shares of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage a potential acquirer from obtaining control of us, even if the acquisition or merger would be in the best interest of our shareholders, or could otherwise affect our business because of our compliance with Shari’ah principles as described below. This could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Arcapita is also able to control the election of directors to our board. Two of the eight members of our board of directors are representatives of Arcapita. Our compliance with Shariah principles may make it difficult for us to obtain financing and may limit the products we sell. Arcapita operates its business and makes its investments in a manner consistent with the body of Islamic principles known as Shari’ah. Consequently, we operate our business in a manner that is consistent with Shari’ah principles and will continue to do so for so long as Arcapita is a controlling shareholder. Shari’ah principles regarding the lending and borrowing of money are complicated, requiring application of qualitative and quantitative standards. A Shari’ah-compliant company is prohibited from engaging in derivative hedging transactions such as interest rate swaps or futures, forward options or other instruments designed to hedge against changes in interest rates or the price of commodities we purchase. Also, a Shari’ah compliant company is prohibited from dealing in the areas of alcohol, gambling, pornography, pork and pork-related products. We may be subject to adverse publicity resulting from statements about Arcapita or complaints or questions from our customers arising from such adverse publicity. Arcapita could be the subject of allegations that could adversely affect our reputation in the eyes of our customers or investors due to the fact that it has offices in Bahrain and that its investors are located in the Middle East. During 2002, we were subject to adverse publicity due to attempts to connect Arcapita with inflammatory and controversial statements made by one of its former outside advisors, in his individual capacity, regarding a variety of subjects, including events in the Middle East. We may be subject to additional adverse publicity in the future due to the ownership of our common stock by Arcapita. Even if unfounded, such adverse publicity could divert our management’s time and attention and adversely affect the way our customers perceive us, our net sales or results of operations, in the aggregate or at individual coffeehouses, or the market price for shares of our common stock. Our annual results and comparable coffeehouse sales may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly financial and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly results fluctuate or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decline. 11 Table of Contents Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Minnesota law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control that could be beneficial to our shareholders, which could depress the market price of shares of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Minnesota corporate law contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us or our management that could be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of those shares, which would be senior to our common stock, without prior shareholder approval; • establish advance notice requirements for nominating directors and proposing matters to be voted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause; • limit the right of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • impose procedural and other requirements that could make it difficult for shareholders to effect some corporate actions. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, shareholders will benefit from an investment in shares of our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents 