Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make in this filing, and other written or oral statements made by or on our behalf, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Words or phrases such as “should result,” “are expected to,” “we anticipate,” “we estimate,” “we project,” “we believe,” or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or projections. We believe that these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on such statements. Such statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise. The following risk factors, and others that we may add from time to time, are some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in each of the last three fiscal years and in all but two years since our inception in 1992. Our net losses were $2.1 million, $4.9 million, and $9.1 million for the years ended January 2, 2005, January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006, respectively. We may continue to incur net losses, and we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in future periods. We will continue to incur significant operating expenses to grow our business and the number of our coffeehouses. Accordingly, we will need to increase our net sales at a rate greater than our expenses to achieve profitability. We cannot predict whether we will become profitable in future periods. Even if we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Implementation of our growth strategy may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. As of December 31, 2006, we had 464 coffeehouses, including twenty-four franchised locations and five joint venture locations. To achieve our goal of continuing to grow our business and the number of our coffeehouses, we must: • obtain suitable sites at acceptable costs in highly competitive real estate markets; • successfully manage new coffeehouses; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel; • continue to improve and expand our coffee, other beverage and food offerings; • expand our commercial sales; • attract franchisees who will operate coffeehouses internationally and domestically; 6 Table of Contents • continue to upgrade inventory control, marketing and information systems; and • maintain strict quality control from the purchase of coffee beans to the cup of freshly brewed coffee in a customer’s hand. Implementation of our growth strategy may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. Furthermore, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement our business strategy or if our business strategy proves to have been flawed. If we fail to continue to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that maintaining and developing our brand is critical to our success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as a result of competitors offering products similar to our products. We intend to increase our marketing expenditures to create and maintain brand loyalty as well as increase awareness of our brand. If our brand-building strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, and we may be unable to increase our future revenue or implement our business strategy. We will need to raise additional capital in order to continue to grow our business, which subjects us to the risks that we may be unable to maintain or grow our business as planned or that our shareholders may be subject to substantial additional dilution. We may need to raise capital in order to continue to expand our business and open new coffeehouses. We may also require additional capital to respond to competitive pressures, to make capital improvements at our coffeehouses or to acquire necessary technologies. In raising additional capital, we will need to comply with requirements resulting from financing restrictions required by our majority shareholder, which may affect our ability to obtain financing on a timely basis if we have immediate liquidity needs. We do not know if we will be able to raise additional financing or financing on terms favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our business or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. In such a case, our stock price would likely be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible or exchangeable securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced. These newly issued securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. We compete with a number of companies for customers. The success of these competitors could have an adverse effect on us. Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are other gourmet coffee shops and other restaurants. In all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the gourmet coffee beverage business, and we expect this situation to continue. Starbucks is the gourmet coffeehouse segment leader with approximately 8,800 locations in the United States and approximately 3,600 locations internationally. Our primary competitors in addition to Starbucks are regional or local market coffeehouses, such as Dunn Brothers in the Minneapolis market. We also compete with numerous convenience stores, restaurants, coffee shops and street vendors and, to a certain degree, with quick service restaurants such as Dunkin’ Donuts. As we continue to expand geographically, we expect to encounter additional regional and local competitors. We must spend significant resources to differentiate our customer experience, which is defined by our products, coffeehouse environment and customer service, from the offerings of our competitors. Despite these efforts, our competitors still may be successful in attracting our customers. Competition in the gourmet coffee market is becoming increasingly intense as relatively low barriers to entry encourage new competitors to enter the market. The financial, marketing and operating resources of these new market entrants may be greater than our resources. In addition, some of our existing competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and operating resources. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future 7 Table of Contents competitors could have an adverse effect on our business, including loss of customers, declining net sales and loss of market share. We may not be successful in maintaining or expanding our commercial business. As we seek to take advantage of opportunities with existing and potential commercial customers, we may not be successful in maintaining our existing commercial customers or attracting new commercial customers. We do not have contracts with many of our commercial customers and one or more of them could choose to discontinue purchasing our products at any time. A large percentage of our commercial business is concentrated in a small number of customers and we expect that this concentration will continue in the future. Consequently, the loss of any one customer in this area could have a significant adverse impact on our commercial business. In addition, we may not be able to attract new commercial customers, which would impede our ability to achieve our growth strategy. We may not be able to manage our expected growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to continue to develop additional company-owned coffeehouses and partner with qualified developers to open franchised coffeehouses, expand our commercial business and further develop brand license opportunities with leading consumer product companies. Our growth has increased our operating complexity and the level of responsibility for new and existing management. Our anticipated growth could place a strain on our management, employees and operations. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage our recent and future growth effectively will depend on our ability to implement and improve financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect changes in our business, such as implementing internal controls to handle the increased size of our operations and hiring, training, developing and managing an increasing number of experienced management-level and other employees. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the failure to attract and retain qualified employees or our inability to respond effectively to recent growth or plan for future growth could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy or our results of operations. Our new company-owned coffeehouses in existing markets may not achieve market acceptance or the same levels of profitability. Our expansion plan depends on opening new coffeehouses in existing markets. New coffeehouses may take longer to reach profitability, thereby affecting our overall profitability and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be successful in operating our new coffeehouses on a profitable basis. In addition, our failure to achieve market acceptance or profitability at one or more of our new coffeehouses could put a significant strain on our financial resources and could limit our ability to further expand our business. Franchised coffeehouses may not achieve market acceptance or profitability. Our growth plan depends on our ability to attract and secure domestic and international franchisees to open coffeehouses in new markets. The success of these franchisees will be affected by the different local competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns as well as our ability to generate market awareness of the Caribou Coffee brand in these new markets. Moreover, a franchisee may not be able to operate their coffeehouses profitably which may affect the franchisees and our ability to develop coffeehouses in that market in the future. A significant interruption in the operation of our roasting or distribution facility could potentially disrupt our operations. We have only one coffee roasting and distribution facility. A significant interruption in the operation of this facility, whether as a result of broken equipment, a natural disaster or other causes, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business on a day-to-day basis. 8 Table of Contents Because our business is highly dependent on a single product, gourmet coffee, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and economic conditions that could harm our financial results. Our business is not diversified and consists of buying, blending and roasting coffee beans and operating gourmet coffeehouses. Consumer preferences often change rapidly and without warning, moving from one trend to another among many product or retail concepts. Shifts in consumer preferences away from the gourmet coffee segment would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences and economic conditions. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their role without effective replacements, our operations may suffer. The success of our business to date has been, and our continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services of our executive officers, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Coles, and our other key personnel who have extensive experience in our industry. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could suffer. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. We may not be able to hire or retain additional coffeehouse managers and other coffeehouse personnel and our recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase our costs and reduce our profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified coffeehouse managers and other coffeehouse personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality customer service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. Additionally, coffeehouse manager and hourly employee turnover in our industry is high. If quality employees cannot be retained we may be required to increase our recruiting and compensation expenses, which may reduce our profitability. Our roasting methods are essential to the quality of our coffee, and our business would suffer if our competitors were able to duplicate them. We consider our roasting methods essential to the flavor and richness of our coffee and, therefore, essential to our brand. If our competitors copy our roasting methods, the value of our brand may be diminished, and we may lose customers to our competitors. In addition, competitors may be able to develop roasting methods that are more advanced than our roasting methods, which may also harm our competitive position. We are susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in Minnesota. As of December 31, 2006, 193, or 42%, of our coffeehouses were located in Minnesota, including 1 franchised location. Our Minnesota coffeehouses accounted for approximately half of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result, we are susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in that state. In addition, given our geographic concentration in the Upper Midwest, negative publicity in that region regarding any of our coffeehouses could have a material effect on our business and operations throughout the region, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, new or revised laws or regulations, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or disruptions in the supply of food products. Because we rely heavily on third party shipping companies to deliver our coffee, any disruption in their services or increase in shipping costs could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We rely on a number of third party shipping companies to deliver coffee to our distribution and roasting facility and our coffeehouses as well as to mail-order or Internet-order customers. We have no control over these companies and the services provided by them may be interrupted or disrupted as a result of labor shortages, contract disputes or 9 Table of Contents other factors. If we experience an interruption or disruption in these services, we may be unable to ship our coffee in a timely manner. A delay in shipping could: • have an adverse impact on the quality of the coffee shipped, and thereby adversely affect our brand and reputation; • result in the disposal of an amount of coffee that could not be shipped in a timely manner; and • require us to contract with alternative, and possibly more expensive, shipping companies. If there is a significant increase in shipping costs, we may face a decrease in revenue and profits. If we bear these costs without an increase in our prices, then our profit margins would go down. If the costs are passed on to the customers in the form of higher prices, then our net sales may suffer if the cost differential is large enough to create a consumer reaction that would adversely affect the demand of our products. We could be subject to complaints or claims from our customers or adverse publicity resulting from those complaints or claims. We may be the subject of complaints from or litigation by customers who allege beverage or food-related illnesses, injuries suffered on the premises or other quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from any such complaints or allegations may divert our management’s time and attention and materially adversely affect our brand perception, sales and profitability, or the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether or not such complaints or allegations are true or whether or not we are ultimately held liable. A lawsuit or claim also could result in an expensive settlement, defense, or penalty. Complaints or claims by current, former or prospective employees could adversely affect us. We have been, and in the future may be, the subject of complaints or litigation from current, former or prospective employees from time to time. Three of our former employees have filed a lawsuit against us that claims we misclassified our retail coffeehouse managers and managers in training as exempt from the overtime provisions of the Minnesota Fair Labor Standards Act and the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, and that these managers and managers in training are therefore entitled to overtime compensation. These employees seek to represent themselves and all of our allegedly similarly situated current and former (within specified time periods) coffeehouse managers and managers in training. This claim or any other complaints or litigation involving current, former or prospective employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and might potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in one or more fiscal periods. We may not be able to renew leases or control rent increases at our retail locations or obtain leases for new coffeehouses. All of our coffeehouses are presently located on leased premises. Upon the expiration of some of these leases, there is no automatic renewal or option to renew. Consequently, at the end of the term of the lease, we might be forced to find a new location to lease or close the coffeehouse. If we do negotiate a new lease at the existing location or an extension of the existing lease, the rent may increase substantially. Any of these events could adversely affect our profitability. Other leases are subject to renewal at fair market value, which could involve substantial rent increases, or are subject to renewal with scheduled rent increases, which could result in rents being above fair market value. In addition, we intend to lease locations for the new coffeehouses we plan to open. We compete with numerous other retailers and restaurants for coffeehouse sites in the highly competitive market for retail real estate and some landlords and developers may exclusively grant locations to our competitors. As a result, we may not be able to obtain new leases, or renew existing ones, on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our net sales and brand-building initiatives. 10 Table of Contents Our growth through franchising may not occur as rapidly as we currently anticipate and may be subject to additional risks. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to seek franchisees to operate coffeehouses under the Caribou Coffee brand in international markets and in domestic locations. We believe that our ability to recruit, retain and contract with qualified franchisees will be increasingly important to our operations as we expand. Our franchisees are dependent upon the availability of adequate sources of financing in order to meet their development obligations. Such financing may not be available to our franchisees, or only available upon disadvantageous terms. Our franchise strategy may not enhance our results of operations. In addition, coffeehouse openings contemplated under our existing franchise agreements or any future franchise agreement may not open on the anticipated development schedule or at all. Expanding through franchising exposes our business and brand to risks because the quality of franchised operations will be beyond our immediate control. Even if we have contractual remedies to cause franchisees to maintain operational standards, enforcing those remedies may require litigation and therefore our image and reputation may suffer, unless and until such litigation is successfully concluded. Growth of our international operations may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to seek franchisees to operate coffeehouses internationally under the Caribou Coffee brand. As a result, our business and operations will be increasingly subject to the risk of changes in economic conditions and, to a lesser extent, changes in social and political conditions inherent in foreign operations, including changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. In addition, consumer tastes vary from region to region, and consumers located in the regions in which we may expand our retail operations may not be as receptive to gourmet coffees as consumers in existing markets. Compliance with health, environmental, safety and other government regulations applicable to us could increase costs and affect profitability. Each of our coffeehouses and our roasting facility is and will be subject to licensing and reporting requirements by a number of governmental authorities. These governmental authorities include federal, state and local health, environmental, labor relations, sanitation, building, zoning, fire, safety and other departments that have jurisdiction over the development and operation of these locations. Our activities are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and related regulations, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Changes in any of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse affect on our operations, sales, and profitability. Delays or failures in obtaining or maintaining required construction and operating licenses, permits or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of new retail locations, or could materially and adversely affect the operation of existing coffeehouses. In addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary variances or amendments to required licenses, permits or other approvals on a cost-effective or timely basis in order to construct and develop coffeehouses in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The success of our coffeehouses depends in part on our brand, logos, branded merchandise and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. We also use our trademarks and other intellectual property on the Internet. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may become engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs to us as well as diversion of management attention. 11 Table of Contents Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of shares of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with disclosure controls and procedures discussed above, are designed to prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of shares of our common stock. We have a significant number of options outstanding to acquire shares of our common stock that, when exercised, will dilute existing shareholders and could decrease the market price of our common stock. We have a significant number of outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock at various price ranges. In addition to the dilution our shareholders will experience once these options are exercised, our shareholders could experience a decline in the market price of our common stock from the sale of these shares in the public market. The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” issued in December 2004 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, requires us to record stock-based compensation charges to earnings for employee stock option grants commencing with our first quarter of 2006. The Company recognized approximately $500,000 of compensation expense during the fiscal year 2006, related to the grant of options to purchase shares under the Company’s stock option plans. The negative impact of future equity based grants on the market price of our common stock may be exacerbated by our adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which will require us to increase significantly the amount of compensation expense we record upon such grants. Changes in other existing financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to the impact on our earnings of SFAS No. 123R, other changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our gourmet coffee contains caffeine and other active compounds, the health effects of some of which are not fully understood. A number of research studies conclude or suggest that excessive consumption of caffeine may lead to increased heart rate, nausea and vomiting, restlessness and anxiety, depression, headaches, tremors, sleeplessness and other adverse health effects. An unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in coffee could significantly reduce the demand for coffee, which could harm our business and reduce our sales and profitability. A shortage in the supply, or an increase in the price, of coffee beans could adversely affect our net sales. The supply and price of coffee beans are subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee beans are traded in the commodity market, the high-grade arabica coffee beans we buy tend to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above commodity coffee prices, depending upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, political and economic conditions or civil unrest or strikes due to the poor conditions imposed on many coffee farmers. In addition, coffee bean prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence commodity prices of coffee beans through agreements establishing export quotas or restricting coffee supplies worldwide. Our ability to raise sales prices in response to rising coffee bean prices may be limited, and our profitability could be adversely affected if coffee bean prices were to rise substantially. Moreover, passing price increases on to our customers could result in losses in sales volume or margins in the future. Similarly, rapid sharp decreases in the cost of coffee beans could also force us to lower sales prices before we have realized cost reductions in our coffee bean inventory. We face the risk of fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of our non-coffee raw ingredients. The cost, availability and quality of non-coffee raw ingredients for our products are subject to a range of factors. Fluctuations in economic and political conditions, weather and demand could adversely affect the cost of our ingredients. We have limited supplier choices and are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh ingredients, thereby subjecting us to the risk of shortages or interruptions in supply. In particular, the supply and price of dairy products are subject to significant volatility. Our ability to raise sales prices in response to increases in prices of these non-coffee raw ingredients may be limited, and our profitability could be adversely affected if the prices of these ingredients were to rise substantially. Risks Related to Our Structure Arcapita has substantial control over us, and could limit other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval and may support corporate actions that conflict with other shareholders’ interests. Our largest shareholder is an affiliate of Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c), a global investment group founded in 1997 with offices in Atlanta, London and Bahrain. We refer to Arcapita Bank B.S.C. (c) and its affiliates collectively as either Arcapita or our majority shareholder in the Form 10-K. Arcapita beneficially owns 11,672,245 shares, or approximately 60.5%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. Arcapita’s ownership of shares of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage a potential acquirer from obtaining control of us, even if the acquisition or merger would be in the best interest of our shareholders, or could otherwise affect our business because of our compliance with Shari’ah principles as described below. This could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Arcapita is also able to control the election of directors to our board. Two of the six members of our board of directors are representatives of Arcapita. 13 Table of Contents Our compliance with Shari’ah principles may make it difficult for us to obtain financing and may limit the products we sell. Our majority shareholder operates its business and makes its investments in a manner consistent with the body of Islamic principles known as Shari’ah. Consequently, we operate our business in a manner that is consistent with Shari’ah principles and will continue to do so for so long as Arcapita is a significant shareholder. Shari’ah principles regarding the lending and borrowing of money are complicated, requiring application of qualitative and quantitative standards. The negotiation and documentation of financing that is compliant with these principles are generally complex and time consuming. As such, if we have immediate liquidity needs, we may not be able to obtain financing that is compliant with Shari’ah principles on a timely basis. A Shari’ah-compliant company is prohibited from engaging in derivative hedging transactions such as interest rate swaps or futures, forward options or other instruments designed to hedge against changes in interest rates or the price of commodities we purchase. Also, a Shari’ah compliant company is prohibited from dealing in the areas of alcohol, gambling, pornography, pork and pork-related products. We may be subject to adverse publicity resulting from statements about Arcapita or complaints or questions from our customers arising from such adverse publicity. Arcapita, our majority shareholder, could be the subject of allegations that could adversely affect our reputation in the eyes of our customers or investors due to the fact that it has offices in Bahrain and that its investors are located in the Middle East. During 2002, we were subject to adverse publicity due to attempts to connect Arcapita with inflammatory and controversial statements made by one of its former outside advisors, in his individual capacity, regarding a variety of subjects, including events in the Middle East. We may be subject to additional adverse publicity in the future due to the ownership of our common stock by Arcapita. Even if unfounded, such adverse publicity could divert our management’s time and attention and adversely affect the way our customers perceive us, our net sales or results of operations, in the aggregate or at individual coffeehouses, or the market price for shares of our common stock. Our annual results and comparable coffeehouse sales may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly financial and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly results fluctuate or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decline. Factors that may cause our quarterly results and comparable coffeehouse sales to fluctuate include the following: • the disposition of coffeehouses; • the opening of new coffeehouses; • increases in labor costs; • increases in the cost of food products; • the ability of our franchisees to meet their future commitments under development agreements; • consumer concerns about food quality; • the level of competition from existing or new competitors in the our industry; • inclement weather patterns, and • economic conditions generally, and in each of the markets in which we are located. Accordingly, results for any one-quarter are not indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter or for the full year, and comparable coffeehouse sales for any future period may decrease. 14 Table of Contents Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Minnesota law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control that could be beneficial to our shareholders, which could depress the market price of shares of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Minnesota corporate law contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us or our management that could be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for shares of our common stock. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of those shares, which would be senior to our common stock, without prior shareholder approval; • establish advance notice requirements for nominating directors and proposing matters to be voted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • provide that directors may be removed by shareholders only for cause; • limit the right of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • impose procedural and other requirements that could make it difficult for shareholders to effect some corporate actions. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, shareholders will benefit from an investment in shares of our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders have purchased their shares. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 