Item 1a. Risk Factors The following risk factors are relevant to our future results and financial success, and should be read with care. Risks Related to the Merger Proposed Merger with Berkshire Hills Bancorp, Inc. On December 21, 2010, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Berkshire Hills Bancorp, Inc. (“Berkshire”), pursuant to which Legacy Bancorp will merge with and into Berkshire, with Berkshire as the surviving corporation. Completion of the merger is subject to closing conditions including, but not limited to, various regulatory approvals and the approval of the shareholders of the Company and Berkshire. The Company currently expects that the merger will be completed during the third quarter of 2011. It is possible, however, that factors outside of our control could require the parties to complete the merger at a later time, or not to complete the merger at all. Delay or failure to consummate the merger could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Our shareholders will receive a fixed ratio of 0.56385 shares of Berkshire common stock plus $1.30 cash for each share of Legacy common stock regardless of any changes in the market value of Legacy common stock or Berkshire common stock before the completion of the merger. Upon completion of the merger, each share of Legacy common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.56385 shares of Berkshire common stock plus $1.30 cash. There will be no adjustment to the exchange ratio (except for adjustments to reflect the effect of any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification or other similar transaction with respect to Legacy common stock), and we do not have a right to terminate the merger agreement based upon changes in the market price of Berkshire common stock, subject to the limited exception described below. Accordingly, the dollar value of Berkshire common stock that our shareholders will receive upon completion of the merger will depend upon the market value of Berkshire common stock at the time of completion of the merger, which may be lower or higher than the closing price of Berkshire common stock on the last full trading day preceding public announcement that Berkshire and Legacy entered into the merger agreement, the last full trading day prior to the date of proxy statement delivered to our shareholders or the date of the shareholder meeting. The market values of Berkshire common stock and Legacy common stock have varied since Berkshire and Legacy entered into the merger agreement and will continue to vary in the future due to changes in the business, operations or prospects of Berkshire and Legacy, market assessments of the merger, regulatory considerations, market and economic considerations, and other factors, most of which are beyond our control. If, on the date on which all regulatory approvals for the merger have been received, the market price for Berkshire common stock is less than $16.70 and since the date of the merger agreement the percentage decrease in the market price of the Berkshire common stock is more than 20% greater than any percentage decrease in the average market price of a prescribed index, Legacy may elect to terminate the merger agreement. If Legacy provides notice of its intent to terminate, Berkshire will have the option of paying additional consideration, as specified in the merger agreement, in order to proceed with the merger. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and consequently on Berkshire. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Berkshire. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Berkshire, Berkshire’s business following the merger could be harmed. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of Berkshire. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. The merger agreement prohibits us from pursuing alternatives to the merger following shareholder approval. The merger agreement contains provisions that limit our ability to discuss competing third-party proposals to acquire all or substantially all of the Company, including a prohibition on any such discussions following the shareholders’ approval of the merger. These provisions, which include a termination fee of up to approximately $4.3 million payable under certain circumstances, may discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or substantially all of the Company from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share market price than that proposed in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire the Company than it might otherwise have proposed to pay. 33 Table of Contents Regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or impose conditions that are not presently anticipated. Before the merger may be completed, certain approvals or consents must be obtained from the various bank regulatory and other authorities in the United States and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. There can be no assurance as to whether the federal or state regulatory approval will be received or the timing of the approvals. Berkshire is not obligated to complete the merger if the regulatory approvals received in connection with the completion of the merger include any conditions or restrictions that would constitute a “Material Adverse Effect” as defined in the merger agreement. While we do not currently expect that any such conditions or restrictions would be imposed, other than a divestiture of a portion of our deposits, loans and branch offices, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or restrictions could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of Berkshire following the merger, any of which might have a Material Adverse Effect on Berkshire following the merger. The merger agreement specifically provides that a divesture of less than $200 million of deposit liabilities, whether from us, Berkshire or a combination of the two, together with related branch premises and such loans as one of more bank regulators may require in connection with such divestiture, will not constitute a Material Adverse Effect. Risks Related to Our Business The economic and financial market downturn has had and may continue to have an adverse effect our business and financial results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. Throughout 2008 and 2009 and into 2010, economic conditions continued to worsen. Unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. Our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. The continuing housing slump has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, declines in home prices, and could ultimately result in increased delinquencies on our residential, commercial and construction mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. We could record future losses on our securities portfolio. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recognized total other-than-temporary impairment of $3.9 million and $7.2 million, respectively, on our portfolio of securities and other investments. We considered all of this impairment to be credit-related and, therefore, in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we recorded all of the impairment as losses through a reduction of non-interest income. A number of factors or combinations of factors could require us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that a further unrealized loss that exists with respect to our securities portfolio constitutes additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, a failure by an issuer to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an 34 Table of Contents improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers deteriorates and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity would decrease. We own common stock of the FHLBB and hold this stock to qualify for membership in the FHLB system and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLBB common stock as of December 31, 2010 was $10.9 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLBB common stock. Reports published since the recession began in 2007 indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including the FHLBB, could be substantially diminished. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBB common stock could be impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity. In the past two years, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities issued by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. We cannot predict whether the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or any of the new regulations contemplated by the Act will adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. In July 2010, Congress enacted and the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Act”). The Act is one of the most sweeping laws affecting the banking and financial services industries ever enacted in the United States and includes several provisions that will affect how banks will be regulated in the future. Title I of the Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish new, and likely higher, minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements. Title X of the Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent bureau in the Federal Reserve System to regulate the offering of consumer financial products and services, and makes it harder for courts and the Comptroller of the Currency to determine that state laws protecting consumers in financial matters are preempted by federal laws that apply to national banks. Title XIV of the Act imposes new requirements on banks and other mortgage lenders. Other provisions of the Act will restrict debit card transaction fees and sales of residential mortgage loans to institutions that package and securitize the loans. Additionally, the Act requires various federal agencies to adopt implementing regulations over the course of the next several months. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, our current primary federal regulator. On or about July 21, 2011, the OTS will cease to exist as a separate entity and will be merged and become a division of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). On the effective date of the OTS 35 Table of Contents merger, the OCC will assume the OTS’ role as regulator and supervisor of Legacy Banks, and the Federal Reserve will become the primary supervisor and regulator of Legacy Bancorp. In addition, compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses. It is impossible to predict whether the Act or any of the new regulations contemplated by the Act will adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Our commercial real estate and commercial loans expose us to increased credit risks, and these risks will increase if we succeed in increasing these types of loans. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial loans generate higher returns, but also pose greater credit risks, than do owner-occupied residential mortgage loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. We make both secured and some short-term unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by equipment, leases, inventory and accounts receivable. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Our continuing concentration of loans in our primary market areas may increase our risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Berkshire County, in western Massachusetts, as well as in eastern New York. The local economic conditions in our market areas have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The concentration within our investment portfolio may increase our risk. Within the investment portfolio, the Company has a significant amount of debt securities, including mortgage-backed securities, issued by companies in the financial services sector. Given the current market conditions, this sector has an enhanced level of credit risk. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements, including our adjustable-rate mortgage loans, which represent a large portion of our residential loan portfolio. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because, as a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would 36 Table of Contents result in a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest income. See “Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk Management.” We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. On the other hand, increases in interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans result in larger mortgage payments due from borrowers, which could potentially increase our level of loan delinquencies and defaults. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. We face significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. Savings banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and commercial banks operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, we face additional and significant competition for funds from money-market mutual funds and issuers of corporate and government securities. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Moreover, we may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of our loans and deposits. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination as outlined in the “Regulation And Supervision” section of this report. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of Thrift Supervision, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None 37 Table of Contents 