Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be harmed. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We currently have no drug products for sale, and only one drug product candidate, Ofirmev™. We are dependent on the success of Ofirmev™, and cannot guarantee that this product candidate will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our business success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize our only product candidate, Ofirmev, and any significant delays in obtaining approval for and commercializing Ofirmev will have a substantial adverse impact on our business and financial condition. If approved, our ability to generate revenues from Ofirmev will depend on our ability to: • hire, train, deploy and support our sales force; • create market demand for Ofirmev through our own marketing and sales activities, and any other arrangements to promote this product candidate we may later establish; • obtain sufficient quantities of Ofirmev from our third-party manufacturers as required to meet commercial demand at launch and thereafter; • establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers, distributors and group purchasing organizations on commercially reasonable terms; and • maintain patent protection and regulatory exclusivity for Ofirmev. We may not receive regulatory approval for Ofirmev, or its approval may be further delayed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The process for obtaining approval of an NDA is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. For example, we submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, for Ofirmev to the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in May, 2009. The NDA was accepted for filing in July 2009, and designated for priority review. Pursuant to Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines, the FDA was expected to complete its review and provide an action letter with respect to the NDA in November 2009; however, the agency instead indicated that its review would be extended for up to three additional months, resulting in a new PDUFA goal date in February 2010. On February 10, 2010, we received a complete response letter from the FDA, which stated that the NDA could not be approved in its present form due to deficiencies with respect to good manufacturing practices observed during the agency’s inspection of the facilities of our third party manufacturer, which was completed on February 5, 2010. On February 18, 2010, our third party manufacturer submitted a response to the FDA, and we intend to re-submit a 505(b)(2) NDA for Ofirmev as soon as possible following the resolution of the inspectional observations. We plan to incorporate by reference all of the data in the original NDA, adding only relevant information regarding the resolution of the deficiencies with respect to good manufacturing practices, and updated safety information derived from the use of this product candidate in European and other countries. Our plans to re-submit an NDA for Ofirmev will be delayed if the FDA is not satisfied with the response by our third party manufacturer, or if the FDA determines that it must re-inspect the facilities used to manufacture Ofirmev before agreeing that the inspectional observations have been adequately addressed. Additionally, our 20 Table of Contents planned re-submission of an NDA for Ofirmev will be delayed if the FDA does not agree that the registration batches submitted in our original NDA are fully representative of the manufacturing process and thus meet the requirements for batches that may be used to provide evidence of stability for this product candidate. In such an event, we would be required to include information regarding the stability of other batches of Ofirmev or, potentially, to manufacture new batches in order to provide the necessary stability data prior to re-submitting an NDA, which could delay our planned re-submission and cause us to incur significant additional expenses. As part of its standard procedures, the FDA will require us to provide updated safety information when we re-submit the NDA for Ofirmev, including safety information derived from the use of this product candidate in European and other countries. Any reports of unanticipated adverse events that are included in this report could influence the FDA’s decision as to whether to approve our NDA, or cause the FDA to re-evaluate previously reviewed portions of the NDA and lead to new data requests, which could result in additional delays. Such unanticipated adverse events could also cause the agency to require that we add unfavorable statements, such as warnings or contraindications, to the labeling for Ofirmev, if approved. Additionally, our NDA for Ofirmev may not be approved, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in FDA policies for drug approval prior to the re-submission of our NDA during the review period. For example, although many products have been approved by the FDA in recent years under Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, objections have been raised to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If challenges to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) are successful, the agency may be required to change its interpretation, which could delay or prevent the approval of our NDA for Ofirmev. The review of our re-submitted NDA may also be delayed due to the FDA’s internal resource constraints. Any significant delay in re-submitting an NDA and obtaining FDA approval for Ofirmev, or a second non-approval, could negatively impact our ability to ultimately obtain marketing authorization for this product candidate and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If our contract manufacturer fails to complete pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for Ofirmev on a timely basis or fails to comply with stringent regulatory requirements, we will face delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, this product candidate, and our costs will increase. We do not manufacture Ofirmev, and do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Instead, we have relied on a third-party manufacturer, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, or Baxter, to manufacture and perform important pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for this product candidate. As part of the process for obtaining regulatory approval, we must demonstrate that the facilities, equipment and processes used to manufacture Ofirmev are capable of consistently producing a product that meets all applicable quality criteria, and that is comparable to the product that was used in our clinical trials. We must also provide the FDA with information regarding the validation of the manufacturing facilities, equipment and processes of our third-party manufacturer, and data supporting the stability of our product candidate. If Baxter is not in compliance with current good manufacturing practice requirements, the approval of our marketing application may be delayed, existing product batches may be compromised, and we may experience delays in the availability of this product candidate for commercial distribution. For example, on February 10, 2010, we received a complete response letter from the FDA regarding our NDA submission for Ofirmev, which stated that the NDA could not be approved in its present form due to deficiencies observed during an inspection of the facilities used by Baxter to produce this product candidate, which was completed on February 5, 2010. On February 18, 2010, Baxter submitted a response to the FDA. If the FDA is not satisfied with Baxter’s response and any corrective actions taken by Baxter, or if the FDA determines that it is necessary to re-inspect Baxter’s facilities before agreeing that the inspectional observations have been adequately addressed, we may be required to complete additional manufacturing development activities or provide other information in order to re-submit our NDA, which could cause substantial delays, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents If Ofirmev is approved and our contract manufacturer fails to produce the product in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the commercialization of this product candidate or be unable to meet market demand, and may lose potential revenues. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls, and the use of specialized processing equipment. We have entered into a development and supply agreement with Baxter for the completion of pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities and the manufacture of commercial supplies of Ofirmev. Any termination or disruption of our relationships with Baxter may materially harm our business and financial condition, and frustrate any commercialization efforts for this product candidate. In order to meet anticipated demand for Ofirmev if this product candidate is approved, Baxter has initiated planning activities to install additional production lines, and we have ordered additional, specialized processing equipment to expand the manufacturing capacity for Ofirmev. This processing equipment is currently available from a single source, and if this equipment is not delivered on time or at all, Baxter’s ability to increase the manufacturing capacity for Ofirmev to keep pace with anticipated demand will be substantially impacted. We are currently negotiating a supply agreement for the commercial supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for Ofirmev. If we need to change to another manufacturer or significantly change the manufacturing processes for this product, we may be required to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical or clinical testing, which could increase our costs and cause delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize the product. All of our contract manufacturers must comply with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations, including current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, and we have little control over their compliance with these regulations. Any failure to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval, and would limit the availability of our product. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and potential for product liability claims. If the commercial manufacturers upon whom we rely to manufacture Ofirmev, and any other product candidates we may in-license, fail to deliver the required commercial quantities on a timely basis at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. The FDA may determine that Ofirmev has undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization. If concerns are raised regarding the safety of a new drug as a result of undesirable side effects identified during clinical testing, the FDA may decline to approve the drug at the end of the NDA review period or issue a letter requesting additional data or information prior to making a final decision regarding whether or not to approve the drug. The number of such requests for additional data or information issued by the FDA in recent years has increased, and resulted in substantial delays in the approval of several new drugs. Undesirable side effects caused by Ofirmev could also result in the inclusion of unfavorable information in our product labeling, denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing and generating revenues from the sale of this product candidate. For example, the adverse events observed in the Ofirmev clinical trials completed to date include transient liver enzyme elevations, nausea or vomiting, allergic reactions, and pain or local skin reactions at the injection 22 Table of Contents site. When used in excess of the current guidelines for administration, acetaminophen has an increased potential to cause liver toxicity. While the rate of adverse events in our clinical trials was comparable between the group of patients who received Ofirmev and those who were in the placebo or control groups and, as a result, we do not expect the administration of acetaminophen in intravenous form will result in an increased risk of toxicity to the liver compared with an equivalent dose of acetaminophen administered orally, we cannot be certain that increased liver toxicity or other drug-related side effects will not be observed in future clinical trials, or as a result of sales of the same formulation of intravenous acetaminophen by BMS in European and other countries, or that the FDA will not require additional trials or impose more severe labeling restrictions due to liver toxicity or other concerns. In June 2009, the FDA convened an advisory panel to make recommendations regarding minimization of the risk of significant liver toxicity due to overdoses with oral acetaminophen, primarily in the outpatient setting. While we do not believe that the panel’s specific recommendations will negatively affect Ofirmev, the FDA may take actions different from, or in addition to, those recommended by the panel. If Ofirmev receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by this product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of unfavorable labeling statements, specific warnings or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product, or require it to be removed from the market; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; or • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of Ofirmev or could substantially increase our commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Even if Ofirmev receives regulatory approval, it and any other products we may market will remain subject to substantial regulatory scrutiny. Ofirmev and any other product candidates we may license or acquire will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements with respect to the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. In addition, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If Ofirmev or any other product we may license or acquire fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such as current Good Manufacturing Practices, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • require our contract manufacturer to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; • impose fines other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. 23 Table of Contents In addition to FDA restrictions, numerous other federal, state and local laws and regulations apply to the promotion and sale of pharmaceutical products, such as federal anti-kickback and false claims statutes. For example, the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for some patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market, require a recall or institute fines, or could result in disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. 24 Table of Contents Although the FDA has indicated that our proposed trade name for intravenous acetaminophen, Ofirmev™, is acceptable, the agency may not ultimately approve this trade name. Ofirmev, or any other trade name that we intend to use for intravenous acetaminophen, must be approved by the FDA irrespective of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The FDA conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, and may reject a product name if it believes that the name inappropriately implies medical claims or if it poses the potential for confusion with other product names. For example, the FDA previously rejected our proposed product name, Acetavance, based on the agency’s assertion that the name is unacceptable from a promotional perspective. Following that rejection, we submitted alternative product names to the agency for review, and have recently been informed by the agency that the trade name, Ofirmev, is acceptable. However, the FDA will not approve this trade name until the NDA for intravenous acetaminophen is approved. If the FDA determines that the trade names of other products that are approved prior to the approval of intravenous acetaminophen may present a risk of confusion with our proposed trade name, the FDA may not ultimately approve Ofirmev. If our trade name, Ofirmev, is rejected, we will lose the benefit of any brand equity that may already have been developed for this product candidate, as well as the benefit of our existing trademark applications for this trade name. Additionally, if the FDA does not approve one of our alternative product names for intravenous acetaminophen prior to the NDA approval date, we may be required to launch this product candidate without a brand name, and our efforts to build a successful brand identity for, and commercialize, this product candidate may be adversely impacted. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals are aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including proposals designed to reduce the cost of prescription products, change the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products, permit re-importation of pharmaceutical products into the U.S., and proposals concerning various safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeit drugs, the federal government and numerous states have enacted pedigree legislation. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect in January 2011. Compliance with California and future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. It is also possible that other proposals will be adopted. For example, legislation has been proposed to reform the U.S. healthcare system with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs by, among other things, limiting the level of reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. The enactment of any cost containment measures could result in decreased net revenues from our pharmaceutical products and decrease potential returns from our research and development efforts. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we must calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. In addition, because 25 Table of Contents our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with the government reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. We may never receive approval to commercialize Ofirmev or any other product candidates we may acquire outside of the U.S. Our rights to Ofirmev are limited to the U.S. and Canada. In order to market Ofirmev and any product candidates we may acquire in Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the U.S., we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding non-clinical testing, manufacturing, safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our products may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our products and have an adverse effect on product sales and potential royalties, and that any regulatory approvals we may obtain may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or require us to perform costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Public concern regarding the safety of drug products such as Ofirmev could delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval, result in the inclusion of unfavorable information in our labeling, or require us to undertake other activities that may entail additional costs. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, the FDA, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and the establishment of risk management programs that may, for example, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, grants significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the new law authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. It also significantly expands the federal government’s clinical trial registry and results databank, which we expect will result in significantly increased government oversight of clinical trials. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate these and other provisions of the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA in its review of data from our clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny, particularly with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. If the FDA requires us to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials prior to approving Ofirmev, our ability to obtain approval of this product candidate will be delayed. If the FDA requires us to provide additional clinical or preclinical data following the approval of Ofirmev, the indications for which this product candidate is approved may be limited or there may be specific warnings or limitations on dosing, and our efforts to commercialize Ofirmev may be otherwise adversely impacted. We expect intense competition for Ofirmev, and new products may emerge that provide different or better therapeutic alternatives for our targeted indications. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of Ofirmev from academic 26 Table of Contents institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render Ofirmev obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render Ofirmev obsolete or noncompetitive. Ofirmev will compete with well-established products with similar indications. Competing products available for the treatment of pain include opioids such as morphine, fentanyl, meperidine and hydromorphone, each of which is available generically from several manufacturers, and several of which are available as proprietary products using novel delivery systems. Ketorolac, an injectable non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, or NSAID, is also available generically in the U.S. from several manufacturers, and Caldolor (ibuprofen for injection), an NSAID, was approved by the FDA in June 2009 for the treatment of pain and fever in adults. Competing products available for the treatment of fever in the hospital setting include acetaminophen administered orally and rectally, aspirin and NSAIDs, which may be administered orally, topically or intravenously. Additional products may be developed for the treatment of acute pain, including new injectable NSAIDs, novel opioids, new formulations of currently available opioids and NSAIDS, long-acting local anesthetics and new chemical entities as well as alternative delivery forms of various opioids and NSAIDs. Competitors may seek to develop alternative formulations of intravenous acetaminophen for our targeted indications that do not directly infringe on our in-licensed patent rights. For example, we are aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications covering various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen, including intravenous formulations, as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. The commercial opportunity for Ofirmev could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • development resources, including personnel and technology; • clinical trial experience; • regulatory experience; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize Ofirmev. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, useful and less costly than ours and may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help develop or commercialize Ofirmev in Canada. If Ofirmev does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited. The commercial success of Ofirmev, if approved, will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community, our ability to ensure that the drug is included in hospital formularies, and coverage and reimbursement for Ofirmev by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of Ofirmev or any other product candidate we may license or acquire will depend on a number of factors, including: • limitations or warnings contained in the product’s FDA-approved labeling, including potential limitations or warnings for Ofirmev that may be more restrictive than oral formulations of acetaminophen; 27 Table of Contents • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for our product candidates, which could reduce the marketing impact of any superiority claims that we could make following FDA approval; and • potential advantages over, and availability of, alternative treatments, including, in the case of Ofirmev, a number of products already used to treat pain or fever in the hospital setting. Our ability to effectively promote and sell Ofirmev and any other product candidates we may license or acquire in the hospital marketplace will also depend on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and achieve acceptance of the product onto hospital formularies, as well as our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective buying power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital marketplace will also depend on our ability to effectively promote our product candidates to group purchasing organizations. We will also need to demonstrate acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, as well as relative convenience and ease of administration. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with our product candidates. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. We have never marketed a drug before, and if we are unable to establish an effective commercial infrastructure, we will not be able to successfully commercialize Ofirmev. We are planning to build our own sales and marketing capabilities in order to market Ofirmev directly to physicians, nurses, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and third-party payors. The development of a hospital-focused sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure for our domestic operations will be expensive and time consuming and, if not completed on time, could delay the launch of Ofirmev, if approved, and may otherwise negatively impact our commercialization efforts. If we are not successful in attracting or retaining a full complement of qualified sales and marketing personnel in time for the launch of this product candidate, we may not achieve our initial sales objectives. We will incur significant additional expenses associated with the recruitment, training and compensation of our new sales representatives and, because we have elected to begin hiring key sales and marketing management personnel and implementing other pre-commercialization activities prior to the date on which we know whether Ofirmev will be approved, we will incur significant commercialization costs for this product candidate before we know when, or if, it will be approved. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate any product revenue, may experience increased expenses, and may never become profitable. We will rely on third parties to perform many essential services for any products that we commercialize, including services related to warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management, cash collection and adverse event reporting, and if such third parties fail to perform as expected or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our ability to commercialize Ofirmev will be significantly impacted and we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of Ofirmev, key aspects of which will be out of our direct control. These service providers will provide key services related to warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management and cash collection, and, as a result, most of our inventory will be stored at a single warehouse maintained by one such service provider. We will substantially rely on this provider as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to 28 Table of Contents meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we have engaged third parties to perform various other services for us relating to adverse event reporting, safety database management, fulfillment of requests for medical information regarding our product candidate and related services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. If the government or third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate coverage and payment rates for Ofirmev or any future products we may license or acquire, if any, or if hospitals choose to use therapies that are less expensive, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. In particular, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for certain surgeries and other treatment therapies they perform. Because this amount may not be based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use therapies which are less expensive when compared to our product candidates. Accordingly, Ofirmev or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if approved, will face competition from other therapies and drugs for these limited hospital financial resources. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to the satisfaction of hospitals, other target customers and their third-party payors. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In some foreign markets, such as Canada, the government controls the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing negotiated with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. In the U.S., we expect that there will be an increase in federal and state proposals to implement pricing controls for prescription drugs, and new legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our product candidates are approved for marketing. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs. Legislative and regulatory actions under consideration in the U.S. include health care reform initiatives that could significantly alter the market for pharmaceuticals (such as private health insurance expansion, the creation of competing public health insurance plans, a variety of proposals that would reduce government expenditures for prescription drugs to help finance healthcare reform, or the eventual transition of the U.S. multiple payer system to a single payer system). Other actions under consideration include proposals for government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in government reimbursement, an accelerated approval process for “follow-on” biologics, legalization of commercial drug importation into the U.S., and involuntary approval of medicines for over-the-counter, or OTC, use. Such legislation could result in the exclusion of Ofirmev and any other product candidates we may license or acquire from coverage and reimbursement programs, or lower the prices we would receive for our product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of any approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms, which would negatively impact our profitability. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to Ofirmev from others, we could lose the ability to continue to develop and commercialize this product candidate. In March 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with BMS relating to Ofirmev for the U.S. and Canada. Because we have in-licensed the rights to this product candidate from a third party, if there is any dispute between us and our licensor regarding our rights under our license agreement, our ability to develop and 29 Table of Contents commercialize this product candidate may be adversely affected. Any uncured, material breach under our license agreement could result in our loss of exclusive rights to our product candidate and may lead to a complete termination of our related product development efforts. If BMS breaches the underlying agreement under which we sublicense the rights to Ofirmev, we could lose the ability to develop and commercialize this product candidate. Our license for Ofirmev is subject to the terms and conditions of a license from SCR Pharmatop to BMS, under which BMS originally licensed the intellectual property rights covering Ofirmev. If BMS materially breaches the terms or conditions of this underlying license from SCR Pharmatop, and neither BMS nor we adequately cure that breach, or BMS and SCR Pharmatop otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach by BMS or disputes with SCR Pharmatop could result in a loss of, or other material adverse impact on, our rights under our license agreement with BMS. While we would expect to exercise all reasonable rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by BMS, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed by SCR Pharmatop, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license from SCR Pharmatop to BMS could result in our loss of exclusive rights to our Ofirmev product candidate and may lead to a complete termination of our product development and any commercialization efforts for Ofirmev. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of February 1, 2010, we had 90 employees. We will need to substantially expand our managerial, commercial, financial and other personnel resources in order to manage our operations and prepare for the commercialization of Ofirmev, if approved. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth, and we may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, particularly for sales and marketing positions, due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • continue the hiring and training of an effective commercial organization in anticipation of the potential approval of Ofirmev, and establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support that organization; • ensure that our consultants and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results, and meet expected deadlines; • continue to carry out our own contractual obligations to our licensors and other third parties; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and commercial, scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. 30 Table of Contents Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management, particularly Theodore R. Schroeder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, James B. Breitmeyer, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice President, Development and Chief Medical Officer, William R. LaRue, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, and Scott A. Byrd, our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Schroeder, Dr. Breitmeyer, Mr. LaRue and Mr. Byrd, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for Ofirmev or other product candidates we may license or acquire and may have to limit their commercialization. The use of Ofirmev and any other product candidates we may license or acquire in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $15.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. However, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidate in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire or in-license products and if we do not successfully identify and acquire or in-license related product candidates or integrate them into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities. We in-licensed the rights to Ofirmev from a third party who conducted the initial development of this product candidate, which is currently our only product candidate. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a pipeline of product candidates by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our focus on the hospital marketplace. Future in-licenses or acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • difficulty or inability to secure financing to fund development activities for such acquired or in-licensed technologies in the current economic environment; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturer must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturer’s activities and, to a lesser extent, our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our product candidate and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturer are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations 32 Table of Contents could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed clinical trials for Ofirmev could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidate may be delayed. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Ofirmev are limited to a specific intravenous formulation of acetaminophen, and our market opportunity for this product candidate may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations that may be developed by competitors. The active ingredient in Ofirmev is acetaminophen. Patent protection for the acetaminophen molecule itself in the territories licensed to us, which include the U.S. and Canada, is not available. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as Ofirmev so long as the competitors do not infringe any process or formulation patents that we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, SCR Pharmatop. We are aware of a number of third-party patents in the U.S. that claim methods of making acetaminophen. If a supplier of the API for our Ofirmev product candidate is found to infringe any of these method patents covering acetaminophen, our supply of the API could be delayed and we may be required to locate an alternative supplier. We are also aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications covering various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. For example, Injectapap, a liquid formulation of acetaminophen for intramuscular injection, was approved by the FDA for the reduction of fever in adults in March 1986, although it was subsequently withdrawn from the market by McNeil Pharmaceutical in July 1986. The number of patents and patent applications covering products in the same field as Ofirmev indicates that competitors have sought to develop and may seek to market competing formulations that may not be covered by our licensed patents and patent applications. In addition, the Canadian patent applications that we have in-licensed have yet to be examined by the Canadian Patent Office. Thus, they may issue with claims that cover less than the corresponding in-licensed U.S. patents, or simply not issue at all. The commercial opportunity for Ofirmev could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop an alternative formulation of acetaminophen outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. If Ofirmev is approved by the FDA, one or more third parties may challenge the patents covering this product, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims. For example, if a third party files an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, for a generic drug product containing acetaminophen and relies in whole or in part on studies conducted by or for us, the third party will be required to certify to the FDA that either: (1) there is no patent information listed in the FDA’s Orange Book with respect to our NDA for Ofirmev; (2) the patents listed in the Orange Book have expired; (3) the listed patents have not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patents are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the third-party’s generic drug product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for Ofirmev, or that such patents are invalid, is called a paragraph IV certification. If the third party submits a paragraph IV certification to the FDA, a notice of the paragraph IV certification must also be sent to us once the third-party’s ANDA is accepted for filing by the FDA. We may then initiate a lawsuit to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of the notice automatically prevents the FDA from approving the third-party’s ANDA until the earliest of 30 months or the date on which the patent expires, the lawsuit is settled, or the court reaches a decision in the infringement lawsuit in favor of the third party. If we do not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the required 45-day period, the third-party’s ANDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend 33 Table of Contents intellectual property rights are often very complex in nature, may be very expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business, and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with our products. We depend on our licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of our intellectual property and have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devotes on our behalf, or whether any financial difficulties experienced by our licensors could result in their unwillingness or inability to secure, maintain and enforce patents protecting our intellectual property. We depend on our licensor, BMS, and its licensor SCR Pharmatop, to protect the proprietary rights covering Ofirmev and we have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that BMS or SCR Pharmatop devote on our behalf, or the priority they place on, maintaining patent rights and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. Either BMS or SCR Pharmatop, depending on the patent or application, is responsible for maintaining issued patents and prosecuting patent applications. SCR Pharmatop is under a contractual obligation to BMS to diligently prosecute their patent applications and allow BMS the opportunity to consult, review and comment on patent office communications. However, we cannot be sure that SCR Pharmatop will perform as required. Should BMS decide it no longer wants to maintain any of the patents licensed to us, BMS is required to afford us the opportunity to do so at our expense. However, we cannot be sure that BMS will perform as required. If BMS does not perform, and if we do not assume the maintenance of the licensed patents in sufficient time to make required payments or filings with the appropriate governmental agencies, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights. Moreover, either BMS or SCR Pharmatop may experience serious difficulties related to their overall business or financial stability, and they may be unwilling or unable to continue to expend the financial resources required to maintain and prosecute these patents and patent applications. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. BMS has the first right to prosecute a third-party infringement of the SCR Pharmatop patents, and has the sole right to prosecute third-party infringement of the BMS patents. We will have the ability to cooperate with BMS in third-party infringement suits involving the SCR Pharmatop patents. It is possible that SCR Pharmatop or BMS could take some action or fail to take some action that could harm the SCR Pharmatop patents. In certain instances, we may be allowed to pursue the infringement claim ourselves. Our licensors may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and our licensors could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the U.S. or other countries. Our licensors are not obligated to defend or assist in our defense against third-party claims of infringement. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on defense of such third-party claims of infringement. For a third-party challenge to the SCR Pharmatop in-licensed patents relating to Ofirmev, we will have some ability to participate in either SCR Pharmatop’s or BMS’ defense thereof. In the case that neither party elects to defend the third-party challenge, we may have the opportunity to defend it. For a third-party challenge to the in-licensed BMS patents relating to Ofirmev, BMS has the sole right to defend such challenge. If it chooses not to defend such challenge, we may have the right to renegotiate or terminate the license regarding the in-licensed BMS patents. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we or our licensors may not be successful in defending claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. 34 Table of Contents Because it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for Ofirmev or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire and the methods we use to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our product candidates or technologies; • it is possible that none of the pending patent applications licensed to us will result in issued patents; • the issued patents covering our product candidates may not provide a basis for commercially viable active products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their earliest effective filing date. Consequently, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications on our product candidates. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect our drug market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. Even if patents issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. 35 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our licensors, employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our licensors or we fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for Ofirmev or any other product candidate we may license or acquire, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation would harm our business. Our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell Ofirmev or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire depends upon our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general fields of pain treatment and cover the use of numerous compounds and formulations in our targeted markets. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we and our licensors may not be successful in defending intellectual property claims by third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that Ofirmev may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that Ofirmev may inadvertently infringe. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their products or technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a competitor’s patent; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it would not be required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these 36 Table of Contents employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have focused primarily on in-licensing and developing Ofirmev and our former product candidate, omiganan pentahydrochloride, with the goal of supporting regulatory approval for these product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in May 2004, including net losses of $45.5 million, $57.1 million and $51.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $ 217.0 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. For example, our development expenses decreased in 2009 due to the completion of our clinical development program for Ofirmev, and the discontinuation of our development program for our omiganan pentahydrochloride product candidate. However, we incurred increased pre-commercialization expenses during 2009 as we prepared for the potential market launch of Ofirmev, and we expect to incur significant sales, marketing and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued development expenses related to the commercialization of this product, if approved by the FDA. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We currently have no source of revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, we have not generated any revenue from our development stage products, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • obtain regulatory approval for Ofirmev, or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire; • manufacture commercial quantities of Ofirmev, if approved, at acceptable cost levels; and • develop a commercial organization and the supporting infrastructure required to successfully market and sell Ofirmev, if it is approved. If Ofirmev is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with its commercialization. We also do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability for a period of time after generating material revenues, if ever. If we are unable to generate revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in May 2004 and have only been conducting operations with respect to Ofirmev since March 2006 and our discontinued omiganan pentahydrochloride product candidate since July 2004. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, in-licensing and conducting product development activities, including clinical trials and manufacturing development activities, for Ofirmev and omiganan pentahydrochloride. Further, in 2009 we began to establish our commercial infrastructure for Ofirmev. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize a product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. 37 Table of Contents We will need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing products for use in the hospital setting, conducting clinical trials, establishing outsourced manufacturing relationships and successfully manufacturing and marketing drugs that we may develop is expensive. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and continue our efforts to hire additional personnel and build a commercial infrastructure to prepare for the commercialization of Ofirmev, if approved by the FDA; • qualify and outsource the commercial-scale manufacturing of our products under current good manufacturing practices; and • in-license and develop additional product candidates. In February 2009, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock, raising net proceeds of approximately $86.2 million. We believe that with our currently available cash and cash equivalent balance, we have sufficient funds to meet our projected operating requirements through the next twelve months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources faster than we currently expect. Further, we may not have sufficient financial resources to meet all of our objectives if Ofirmev is approved, which could require us to postpone, scale back or eliminate some, or all, of these objectives, including our potential launch activities. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the potential for delays in our efforts to seek regulatory approval for Ofirmev, and any costs associated with such delays; • the costs of establishing a commercial organization to sell, market and distribute Ofirmev; • the rate of progress and costs of our efforts to prepare for the submission of an NDA for any product candidates that we may in-license or acquire in the future, and the potential that we may need to conduct additional clinical trials to support applications for regulatory approval; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights associated with our product candidates, including any such costs we may be required to expend if our licensors are unwilling or unable to do so; • the cost and timing of securing sufficient supplies of Ofirmev from our contract manufacturers in preparation for commercialization; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements that we may establish; • if Ofirmev is approved, the potential that we may be required to file a lawsuit to defend our patent rights or regulatory exclusivities from challenges by companies seeking to market generic versions of intravenous acetaminophen; and • the success of the commercialization of Ofirmev. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies, but we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. 38 Table of Contents Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash and investment balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • whether the FDA requires us to complete additional, unanticipated studies, tests or other activities prior to approving Ofirmev, which would likely further delay any such approval; • if Ofirmev is approved, our ability to establish the necessary commercial infrastructure to launch this product candidate without substantial delays, including hiring sales and marketing personnel and contracting with third parties for warehousing, distribution, cash collection and related commercial activities; • our execution of other collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • variations in the level of expenses related to our future development programs; • any product liability or intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory developments affecting Ofirmev or the product candidates of our competitors; and • if Ofirmev receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying hospital demand for this product candidate and wholesalers’ buying patterns. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. For example, in February 2006, we entered into a $7.0 million loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation, and in December 2007, we amended this agreement and secured an additional $15.0 million loan from the same parties and GE Business Financial Services Inc. Our amended loan and security agreement contains a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including required financial reporting, limitations on the disposition of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. To secure our performance of our obligations under our amended loan and security agreement, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than 39 Table of Contents intellectual property assets, to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the amended loan and security agreement could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to periodically perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors are required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits may be limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2009, we have generated federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $171.4 million and $170.6 million, respectively. We also have federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively. Our net operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in 2024 for federal purposes and 2014 for state purposes if we have not used them prior to that time, and our federal tax credits will begin expiring in 2024 unless previously used. Our state tax credits carryforward indefinitely. Additionally, our ability to use any net operating loss and credit carryforwards to offset taxable income in the future will be limited under Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 if we have a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a three-year period. We have not completed an analysis as to whether such a change of ownership has occurred, but in such an event, may be limited to the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits before they expire. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of net operating loss carryforwards for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession and fears of a possible depression. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in October 2006, and an active trading market may not be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our amended loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Business Financial Services Inc. restricts our ability to pay cash dividends. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, the volatility in the overall capital markets reached unprecedented levels during 2008 and 2009, which affected most equity securities. Similar market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense. The trading prices for our common stock during the 52 weeks ending December 31, 2009 ranged from a high of $12.68 to a low of $5.68. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • announcements concerning the progress of our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize Ofirmev, including any requests we receive from the FDA for additional studies or data that result in delays in obtaining regulatory approval or launching this product candidate, if approved; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors or the economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • the failure of Ofirmev, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; 41 Table of Contents • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and concerns by investors that such fluctuations may occur in the future; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • health care reform legislation, including measures directed at controlling the pricing of pharmaceutical products, and third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may now be able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. For example, in May 2009, we completed the registration of 18,059,691 shares of our common stock in connection with a financing transaction completed in February 2009. As a result, all of the shares currently outstanding may generally be freely sold in the public market, subject to volume and other limitations applicable to our affiliates. Additionally, in September 2009, we filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, a registration statement for $100.0 million of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, debt warrants and equity warrants, which was subsequently declared effective by the SEC. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. In addition, certain of our officers have established, and other of our directors and executive officers may in the future establish, programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates may exercise control over stockholder voting matters in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates together controlled approximately 50.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will collectively be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors 42 Table of Contents and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets, and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 662/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our amended loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Business Financial Services Inc., restricts our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These broad 43 Table of Contents market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 