ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our business model is characterized primarily by recurring revenue based on commissions we receive from insurance carriers whose policies are purchased by our members. Although our services are complete upon the approval of a member’s application, we receive commissions and record related revenue, typically on a monthly basis, until the health insurance policy is cancelled or we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy. A significant component of our marketing and advertising expenses consists of payments owed to our marketing partners in connection with applications submitted on our ecommerce platform by potential members referred to us by our marketing partners. As a result of this timing difference between expense and associated revenue recognition, our operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected in periods where we experience a significant increase in new applicants. In addition, if we incur other unanticipated or one-time expenses in a particular quarter or if we lose a significant amount of our member base for any reason, we would likely be unable to offset these expenses by increasing sales within that quarter or to replace lost revenue in the quarter with revenue from new members. As a result, our quarterly results may suffer due to unanticipated expenses, one-time charges or significant member turnover. Changes and developments in the structure of the health insurance system in the United States could harm our business. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, its relative role in financing healthcare delivery and health insurance carriers’ use and payment of commissions to agents and brokers to market individual and family health insurance products. Recently, there has been substantial national and state attention and debate regarding healthcare reform. While President Obama and members of Congress have expressed that our healthcare system is in need of reform, a detailed proposal regarding federal healthcare reform has yet to emerge. It is therefore not possible for us to predict the impact of any healthcare reform at the federal level on our business. In addition, various proposals have emerged at the state level for healthcare reform. For instance, some advocates promote a single-payer healthcare system that would be largely underwritten by the state or federal government, or a hybrid system involving both public and private sectors. Significant federal or 8 Table of Contents state changes to the existing health insurance system, the individual and family health insurance market or in the manner in which health insurance is distributed in the United States could increase competition or reduce or eliminate the need for health insurance agents or demand for private health insurance for individuals, families or small businesses, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The adoption of state or federal laws that promote or establish a government-sponsored or partially government-sponsored healthcare system could reduce or eliminate the number of individuals, families and small businesses seeking or permitted to purchase private health insurance or supplemental coverage, which would substantially reduce the demand for our service and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, speculation regarding healthcare reform or potential changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate creates uncertainty that could lead to increased volatility and a reduction in stock price. Some healthcare reform proposals seek to provide health insurance coverage to all individuals, but do so by maintaining many key aspects of the private sector health insurance system rather than proposing a government sponsored system. We do not know what impact the adoption of proposals like these would have on our business, but they could, if implemented, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our rate of growth may decline. We have in the past and may in the future continue to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures relating to marketing and website technology development. In addition, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company. Although we have experienced revenue growth in prior periods, this growth may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract new individuals, families and small businesses to purchase health insurance through our ecommerce platform and to maintain our relationship with existing members within historical levels. We may not be able to maintain or exceed our historical membership growth rates, and to the extent that the rate of growth of our net new members slows (after accounting for member turnover), our revenue growth is also likely to slow. The commission rates that we receive for individuals and families are typically higher in the first twelve months of a policy. After the first twelve months, they generally decline significantly. Accordingly, to the extent that the rate of growth of our net new members slows, our revenue growth would slow due to a decline in commissions we receive for members whose policies have been active for more than twelve months, in addition to the reduction in revenue growth that would occur solely as a result of a decline in our membership growth rate. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance policies chosen by our members, the carriers offering those policies, the location of members and the laws and regulations in that jurisdiction and the amount of time policies have been active. Our commission rate per member could decrease as a result of either reductions in contractual commission rates or unfavorable changes in health insurance carrier override commission programs, each of which may be beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these factors cause our commission rate per member to decline, our rate of growth may decline. Current economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue depends upon demand for health insurance in the individual, family and small business markets, which can be influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. For instance, an increasing number of individuals are becoming self-employed or unemployed. In addition, as a result of substantial health insurance premium inflation in recent years, we believe that many employers are seeking to reduce the costs associated with providing health insurance to their employees, including offering fewer benefits to employees, reducing or eliminating dependent coverage, increasing employee health insurance premium contributions and eliminating health insurance benefits altogether. We also believe that demand in the individual and family health insurance market may increase as the employees of these employers look to other sources for their health insurance needs and as the number of self-employed and unemployed individuals increases. We have no control over the economic and other factors that influence these trends, and they may reverse. If economic or other factors beyond our control negatively impact our business, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 9 Table of Contents We believe that we have been adversely impacted by recent economic conditions. We cannot be certain of the future impact that the current recession will have on our business. A softening of demand for products and services offered by us, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. economy, including as a result of recent disruptions in the global financial markets or a decrease in general consumer confidence, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Consumers may attempt to reduce expenses by cancelling existing health insurance purchased through us, determine not to purchase new health insurance through us, or purchase health insurance products with lower premiums for which we receive lower commissions. With the recent passage of the economic stimulus bill, which includes a 65% federal subsidy for COBRA premiums for up to nine months for certain eligible workers, we may experience a decline in membership growth due to consumers electing COBRA coverage or our existing members cancelling existing policies for which we serve as the broker of record to take advantage of the subsidy. We experience a significant delay in learning about changes in our membership from health insurance carriers. Given this delay, we do not know to what extent the current economic environment has impacted our membership retention rates. To the extent the economy or other factors adversely impacts our membership retention or the number or type of health insurance applications submitted through us and that are approved by health insurance carriers, our rate of growth will decline and our business and operating results will be harmed. A continuing recessionary environment could also negatively impact the health insurance carriers whose products are offered on our ecommerce platform, and they may, among other things, determine to reduce their commission rates, increase premiums or reduce benefits, change their underwriting practices so that fewer health insurance applications are approved or decrease the amount they are willing to spend for marketing purposes, all of which would negatively impact our sale of health insurance as well as our sponsorship and technology licensing businesses. In addition, interest rates recently have declined, and may continue to decline, and we have experienced a significant reduction in the rate of return on our investments both as a result of the decline in interest rates and as a result of our implementation of more conservative investment policies. While the amount of accumulated unrealized losses on our marketable securities as of December 31, 2008, was not material, economic conditions could materially and adversely impact our investments in the future, including loss of principal, despite our implementation of more conservative investment policies. Our business may not grow if consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance. Numerous health insurance products are available to consumers in any given market. Most of these products vary by price, benefits and other policy features. Health insurance terminology and provisions are often confusing and difficult to understand. As a result, researching, selecting and purchasing health insurance can be a complex process. We believe that this complexity has contributed to a perception held by many consumers that individual health insurance is prohibitively expensive and difficult to obtain. We attempt to make the health insurance research and application process on our website understandable and user-friendly. We also attempt to use our website and other means to educate consumers about the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. If consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance or our ecommerce platform is difficult to navigate, our business may not grow and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are not successful in cost-effectively converting visitors to our website into members, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our growth depends upon growth in our membership. The rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into members is a significant factor in the growth of our membership. A number of factors could influence this conversion rate for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions; 10 Table of Contents • the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platform and with our customer care center; • the variety and affordability of the health insurance products that we offer; • system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or call center operations; • changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels; • the number, type and identity of the health insurance carriers offering the health insurance products for which consumers have expressed interest, and the degree to which our technology is integrated with those carriers; • the health insurance carrier underwriting practices and guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers and the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application; and • competitive offerings. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channels. For example, our conversion rates have historically been lower with respect to consumers referred to us by Internet lead aggregators and relatively higher with respect to consumers coming to us through our direct member acquisition channel. In addition, we may make changes to our ecommerce platform or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience or for other reasons. These changes have in the past, and may in the future, have the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platform could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members as a result of increased costs on a per member basis. In the event the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platform into members does not continue to improve at our historical rate of improvement, our membership growth rate may decline, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our year-over-year growth rate for approved members from all products declined from 22% in the three months ended December 31, 2007 to 10% in the three months ended December 31, 2008. This decline was due to various factors, including an increase in the prior-year base used to compute the amount of growth in making the comparison, a decline in the growth rate of submitted health insurance applications and a decline in the rate at which submitted health insurance applications that were sent to our carriers were approved by our carrier partners. We undertake initiatives in an attempt to improve the rate at which visitors to our ecommerce platform are converted into members. For instance, we previously developed our Electronic Processing Interchange (EPI) technology to simplify the health insurance enrollment process and better integrate our technology systems with those of health insurance carriers. The more our technology is integrated with our carrier partners, the more our application processing times, sales yields and processing costs improve. The third phase of our EPI technology, which we call “eApproval,” allows consumers to apply for health insurance online, electronically transmit signature and payment, receive an instant underwriting response and print membership material at the point of approval on our website. We initially launched our eApproval technology for use with individual and family health insurance with a carrier in California during the second quarter of 2008. The implementation of eApproval is dependent upon its adoption by health insurance carriers, and there can be no assurance that it will be implemented with any carrier in any specific timeframe or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such implementation will impact our membership growth rate, improve sales yields or otherwise be effective. It is too early to determine the effectiveness of any technology or relationship that allows for expedited or instant underwriting, and the effectiveness of any such relationship or technology could be influenced by a number of factors, including sufficient carrier adoption of the technology and willingness to enter into the relationship, carrier allocation of resources, carrier commitment and ability to integrate their systems with ours and to provide expedited responses to insurance applications, system failures and process breakdowns, malfunctions, bugs or capacity constraints, the performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platform and underlying 11 Table of Contents network infrastructure, ecommerce security risks, compliance with insurance and other laws and regulations and changes in laws and regulations. In addition, our implementation of eApproval may materially impact other aspects of our business. For example, shortened time periods between submission of a health insurance application and coverage may reduce demand for short term health insurance. In the event that we are not successful in integrating with our carrier partners to provide expedited underwriting, or if such integration is not effective in improving the rate at which we convert visitors into members, our membership growth rate may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our members, our business and operating results would be harmed. We receive revenue from commissions health insurance carriers pay to us for health insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform. When one of these policies is cancelled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission revenue. Individuals, families and small businesses may choose to discontinue their health insurance policies for a variety of reasons. For example, individuals and families may replace a health insurance policy purchased through us with a health insurance policy provided by a new or existing employer or may determine that they cannot afford health insurance. In addition, our members may choose to transfer their policies to a different agent if, for example, they are not satisfied with our customer service or the health insurance products that we offer. Health insurance carriers may also terminate health insurance plans purchased and held by our members. If we are not successful in transferring members covered under a terminated plan to another policy that we offer, we will lose these members. Our cost in acquiring a new member is substantially greater than the cost involved in maintaining our relationship with an existing member. If we are not able to successfully retain existing members and limit member turnover, our revenue and operating margins will be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, become dependent upon a limited number of insurance carriers, fail to develop new carrier relationships, or if our carrier partners experience negative publicity. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their existing or new health insurance products for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, as a result of a reluctance to distribute their products over the Internet or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. For example, one carrier terminated its relationship with us with respect to the policies it offers in a particular state because the carrier decided to sell those policies through agents that exclusively offered that particular carrier’s products. In the future, an increasing number of carriers may decide to rely on their own internal distribution channels, including traditional in-house agents and carrier websites, to sell their own products and, in turn, could limit or prohibit us from selling their products on our ecommerce platform. For instance, carriers may choose to exclude us from their most profitable or popular products or may determine not to distribute insurance products in the individual, family and small business markets altogether. We may decide to terminate our relationship with a carrier for a number of reasons, including as a result of a reduction in a carrier’s financial ratings, a carrier determining to pay lower commissions or a carrier demanding a sales process that we believe compromises or impairs the value of our service. The termination of our relationship with a carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance products we offer, which could harm our business. We also would lose a source of commissions for future sales and, if our relationship with a carrier is terminated as a result of our material breach of our agreement with the carrier and in a limited number of other cases, future commissions for past sales. Our business could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new carrier relationships and are unable to offer consumers a wide variety of health insurance products. The health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation over the past several years, resulting in a decrease in the number of health insurance carriers. In the future, we may be forced to offer insurance policies from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater 12 Table of Contents portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. We derived 19% and 17% of our total revenue in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively, from carriers owned by UnitedHealthcare. We derived 18% and 16% of our total revenue in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively, from carriers owned by Wellpoint. We derived 11% and 14% of our total revenue in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively, from Aetna. Our agreements with these carriers, entered into in the ordinary course of business, are terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Notwithstanding our separate agreements with various carriers directly or indirectly owned by the same entity, certain carriers have attempted and may continue to attempt to consolidate our relationship with them, which could increase the impact of carrier concentration on us, decrease the commission rates we receive and adversely affect our financial results. Should our dependence on fewer carrier relationships increase (whether as a result of the termination of carrier relationships, further carrier consolidation or otherwise), we may become more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with our carriers, particularly in states where we offer health insurance from a relatively smaller number of carriers or where a small number of carriers dominates the market, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. From time to time, health insurance carriers may experience negative publicity as a result of consumer perception of, and reaction to, certain underwriting practices, news events or other matters. For example, health insurance carriers in California are experiencing negative publicity relating to allegations of violations of California’s “post-claims underwriting” regulations. Negative publicity experienced by our carrier partners may in turn adversely affect us, even if we are not involved, due to our business relationship with the carriers. If it does, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Changes in the quality and affordability of the health insurance products that carriers offer on our ecommerce platform could harm our business and operating results. The demand for health insurance marketed through our ecommerce platform is impacted by, among other things, the variety, quality and price of the health insurance products we offer. If health insurance carriers do not continue to provide us with a variety of high-quality, affordable health insurance products in the individual, family and small business markets, or if their offerings are limited as a result of consolidation in the health insurance industry or otherwise, our sales may decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Health insurance carriers could determine to reduce the commissions paid to us or to change their underwriting practices in ways that reduce the number of insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform, which could harm our business and operating results. Our commission rates, and the commission override payments we receive from health insurance carriers for achieving sales volume thresholds or other objectives, are either set by each carrier or negotiated between us and each carrier. Carriers have altered, and may in the future alter, the contractual relationships we have with them, either by renegotiation or unilateral action. If these contractual changes result in reduced commissions, our business may suffer and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, carriers periodically change the criteria they use for determining whether they are willing to insure individuals as well as other underwriting practices. Beginning in the second half of 2007, we believe that carriers have been applying more stringent underwriting criteria and practices to applications for health insurance and that this condition persisted through December 31, 2008. Changes such as these have in the past resulted in a decrease in the number of insurance policies submitted through our ecommerce platform that are approved. Changes in carrier underwriting criteria or practices could negatively impact sales of insurance policies on our ecommerce platform and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing 13 Table of Contents partners and carriers. We may from time to time test the use of television and radio advertisements as a means to enhance our brand. The promotion of our brand in these and other ways may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our operating results could be harmed. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, marketing partners and/or members, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have historically received media attention in connection with our public relations efforts. While we cannot be certain of the impact of media coverage on our business, if it were to be reduced, the number of consumers visiting our platform could decrease, and our cost of acquiring members could increase as a result of a reduction in the number of members coming from our direct member acquisition channel, both of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and operating results. Our revenue depends upon the number of health insurance applications consumers submit utilizing our ecommerce platform that are approved by health insurance carriers. As a result, the performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platform and underlying network infrastructure are critical to our financial results, our brand and our relationship with members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance our ecommerce platform and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our website traffic or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Although we have experienced only minor system failures and interruptions to date, we could experience significant failures and interruptions in the future, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate our ecommerce platform. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers’ networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our website traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in or decreases the responsiveness of our services would impair our revenue-generating capabilities and harm our business and operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, any loss of data could result in loss of customers and subject us to potential liability. Our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. In addition, our operations are vulnerable to earthquakes in the San Francisco Bay Area and elsewhere in Northern California. While we regularly back-up our system and store the system back-ups in secure third-party offsite locations with restricted access, there can be no assurance that such data recovery systems will operate as designed or prevent a loss of data. Additionally, if we were forced to rely on our system back-ups, we would experience significant delays in restoring the functionality of our website and could experience loss of data, which would harm our business and our operating results. Although we maintain insurance to cover a variety of risks, the scope and amount of our insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover our losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions to our online operations. Consumers may access our customer care center for assistance in connection with submitting health insurance applications through our ecommerce platform. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers and third party software providers, to operate our customer care center. Any failure of the systems that we rely upon in the operation of our customer care center could negatively impact sales of insurance policies through our ecommerce platform or our relationship with consumers and members, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If consumers or carriers opt for more traditional or alternative channels for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon widespread consumer and health insurance carrier acceptance of the Internet as a marketplace for the purchase and sale of health insurance. Consumers and health insurance carriers may choose to depend more on traditional sources, such as individual agents, or alternative sources may develop. Our future growth, if any, will depend in part upon: • the growth of the Internet as a commerce medium generally, and as a market for consumer financial products and services specifically; • consumers’ willingness to conduct their own health insurance research; • our ability to make the process of purchasing health insurance online an attractive alternative to traditional means of purchasing health insurance; • our ability to successfully and cost-effectively market our services as superior to traditional or alternative sources for health insurance to a sufficiently large number of consumers; and • health insurance carriers’ willingness to use us and the Internet as a distribution channel for health insurance products. If consumers and health insurance carriers determine that other sources for health insurance and health insurance applications are superior, our business will not grow and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, MSN and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both algorithmic listings and paid advertisements to attract consumers to our website. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumer’s Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. Our website may also become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our website likely would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which in turn would harm our operating results. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also harm our operating results. We also purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract consumers to our website. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our name and website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. In some circumstances, the prominence of the placement of our name and website is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements. These revisions may result in our having to pay increased 15 Table of Contents amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors and others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many health insurance carriers, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. We recently have experienced increased competition from carriers for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid Internet advertisements, which has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. If this competition increases significantly, or if the fees associated with paid search advertisements increase as a result of algorithm changes or other factors, our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our cost of acquiring members is significantly dependent on the rate at which consumers who click on paid advertisements submit health insurance applications. If this rate does not improve consistent with our historical levels of improvement, our cost of acquisition could increase significantly. We rely significantly on marketing partners for the sale of health insurance on our ecommerce platform and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners. In addition to marketing through Internet search engines, we frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with other online and offline businesses that promote us to their customers. These marketing partners include financial and online service companies, affiliate programs and online advertisers and content providers. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. Our agreements with many of our marketing partners are terminable on short notice. Many factors influence the success of our relationship with our marketing partners, including: • the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner; • the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, including whether the marketing partner is successful in maintaining the prominence of its website in algorithmic search result listings and paid Internet advertisements; • the interest of the marketing partner’s customers in the health insurance products that we offer on our ecommerce platform; • the contractual terms we negotiate with the marketing partner, including the marketing fees we agree to pay a marketing partner; • the percentage of the marketing partner’s customers that submit applications or purchase health insurance policies through our ecommerce platform; • the ability of a marketing partner to maintain efficient and uninterrupted operation of its website; and • our ability to work with the marketing partner to implement website changes, launch marketing campaigns and pursue other initiatives necessary to maintain positive consumer experiences and acceptable traffic volumes. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners or fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. 16 Table of Contents We face risks in the event that we pursue new strategies and opportunities in segments of the health insurance market in which we do not currently operate. We evaluate and explore new strategies and opportunities in segments of the health insurance market in which we do not currently operate, such as Medicare, where we may be able to leverage our technology. We may not adopt these new strategies, and even if we do, we cannot predict whether demand for any new product or service that we offer will result in increased membership or revenue. In addition, modifying our ecommerce platform or creating a new platform for these opportunities may be time consuming and expensive, and our pursuit of them would expose us to laws, regulations and business practices with which we are unfamiliar. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products and adopt new strategies for the growth of our business, our business and financial condition may be harmed. We rely on health insurance carriers to accurately and regularly prepare commission reports, and if these reports are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. We also may not recognize trends in our membership as a result of a lack of information from health insurance carriers. Health insurance carriers typically pay us a specified percentage of the premium amount collected by the carrier during the period that a member maintains coverage under a policy. We rely on carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. It is often difficult for us to independently determine whether or not carriers are reporting all commissions due to us, primarily because the majority of our members terminate their policies by discontinuing their premium payments to the carrier instead of by informing us of the cancellation. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, we will not collect and recognize revenue to which we are entitled, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also are dependent on our carrier partners and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance products other than small business group health insurance, our carrier partners do not directly report member cancellations to us, resulting in the need for us to determine cancellations using payment data that carriers provide. We infer cancellations from this payment data by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months, given that some of our members pay on a schedule less frequently than monthly (e.g., quarterly). With respect to our small business group membership, many groups notify the carrier directly with respect to increases or decreases in group size and policy cancellations. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the group’s annual renewal. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. We also reconcile information carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. Additionally, carriers may require us to return commission payments paid in a prior period due to policy cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. 17 Table of Contents Total revenue per estimated member for the period would also change if our estimated membership changed. Our estimate regarding the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance products also could be inaccurate as it is dependent upon the accuracy of our membership estimates. Our operating results fluctuate depending upon health insurance carrier payment practices and the timing of our receipt of commission reports from health insurance carriers. The timing of our revenue depends upon the timing of our receipt of commission reports and associated payments from health insurance carriers. Although carriers typically report and pay commissions to us on a monthly basis, there have been instances where their report of commissions and payment have been delayed, such as during holiday periods. Any delay could materially impact our financial results for a given quarter as we would not be able to recognize the related commission revenue in that quarter. In addition, much of our commission override revenue is not reported and paid to us in accordance with a scheduled pattern, and some is only reported and paid to us once per year. This could result in a large amount of commission revenue from a carrier being recorded in a given quarter that is not indicative of the amount of revenue we may receive from that carrier in subsequent quarters, causing fluctuations in our operating results. We could report revenue below the expectations of our investors or securities analysts in any particular period if a material report or payment from a health insurance carrier were delayed or not received within the time frame required for revenue recognition. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors. The market for selling health insurance products is intensely competitive and the sale of health insurance over the Internet is new and rapidly evolving. Consumers have the ability to use several sources other than our ecommerce platform to research and purchase health insurance. In addition, consumers can research health insurance using our ecommerce platform and purchase their health insurance through one of our competitors. We compete directly with health insurance carriers, including many of the carriers that offer health insurance through our ecommerce platform. Many carriers market and sell their health insurance plans, including those that are offered on our ecommerce platform, directly to consumers using call centers, their own websites and other means. We also compete with a large number of local insurance agents across the United States that sell health insurance products in their local communities. Some of these traditional insurance agents utilize the Internet in various ways to acquire their customers. For instance, some local agents use “lead aggregator” services that use Websites, Internet search engines and other forms of online advertising to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to the traditional agent. We compete with lead aggregators for these consumers, and some lead aggregators have begun to use quoting and plan comparison tools similar to ours. In addition, a number of traditional agents operate websites that provide some form of online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. Although some of these online agents only sell health insurance in a limited number of states and/or represent only a limited number of health insurance carriers, these agents could expand their service area and product offerings. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to: • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; • devote more resources to website and systems development; • negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments; and • make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. 18 Table of Contents Competitive pressures may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website and loss of market share, or may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with our operations in China. A portion of our operations is conducted in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update our ecommerce platform. This and other information is delivered to us through secured communications over the Internet. Our business would be harmed if this connection temporarily failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States, and different labor and tax laws. United States and Chinese trade laws may impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China, which in turn could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. We plan to continue to expand our Chinese operations. These plans will require additional management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, as we have limited experience with respect to operations in China. In addition, our subsidiary in China has a subsidiary business insurance agency license in the Fujian province in China pursuant to which we are piloting the sale of health, accident and life insurance in the Fujian province. Our license is up for renewal at the end of 2011. We also have entered into a relationship with a local insurance agency outside the Fujian province in Shanghai, China, pursuant to which we offer the local insurance agency’s insurance products in Shanghai on our website in our capacity as a technology service provider. We recently entered into a similar relationship with an insurance company to offer certain of that company’s product throughout China. We have no prior experience marketing or selling insurance in China or in adapting our business and ecommerce platform to Chinese markets and cultures, legal and regulatory regimes or business customs. For instance, the laws and regulations applicable to our marketing and selling insurance online and assisting others in those efforts in China are unclear, and our operations may be in violation of them. The consequences of violating insurance and other applicable laws and regulations in China are unclear, but they could result in the termination of our license and our ability to host insurance products on our technology platform, payment of fines and damages and could harm our business as a whole. For various reasons, we may not expand in China, and even if we do, there can be no assurance that our ecommerce platform in China would ever generate a significant amount of revenue or otherwise be successful. Our success in establishing an insurance-related business in China is dependent upon many of the factors that influence the success of our business in the United States, including, but not limited to, our receiving regulatory approvals (including the renewal of our license), acceptance of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a marketplace for the purchase of insurance, our success in marketing our ecommerce platform and in retaining members who purchase insurance through that platform, our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with insurance carriers, commission rates, the affordability of the insurance products offered, insurance carrier business practices, the effectiveness with which we establish a brand identity, performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platform, competition, the regulatory and healthcare reimbursement environment and changes to the environment, our ability to attract qualified personnel and network security. Our participation and success in the China market may be impacted by additional factors given that outside of Xiamen city, the insurance products offered on our website are offered directly by an insurance carrier or through another insurance agent, including our dependence on a single insurance carrier or insurance agent for the products on our website, the agent’s relationship with insurance carriers and consumers, our relationship with the insurance carrier and agent, each of the agent’s and the insurance carrier’s ability to maintain its licenses and regulatory approvals, and the number, quality and attractiveness of the insurance products offered by the agent and the insurance carrier through our platform. While there is no certainty that we would be able to expand our presence in the insurance industry in China, we may attempt to do so. If we decide to do so, we may need to receive additional government licenses and approvals or enter into additional relationships and may face disadvantages in doing so as a result of our subsidiary in China being wholly foreign owned. 19 Table of Contents Our rate of growth may decline if we are unable to increase our revenue relating to sponsorship advertising. We sell advertising space to health insurance carriers on our website through our sponsorship advertising program. Our sponsorship advertising program allows carriers to purchase advertising space in specific markets in a sponsorship area on our website. If we do not continue to grow our revenue from the sale of sponsorship advertising, or if the rate of growth declines, our business, operational results and financial condition may be harmed. Current economic conditions have adversely impacted the advertising industry in general. To the extent that they impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising on our ecommerce platform, our sponsorship advertising program will be adversely impacted. The success of our sponsorship advertising program is dependent upon a number of other factors, including the effectiveness of the sponsorship advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to attract consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and convert those consumers into members, the existence of a relationship between us and a diverse group of carriers that offer a number of health insurance plans in the markets in which we attempt to sell sponsorship advertising, the cost and other features of the health insurance product that is the subject of the sponsorship advertising, the impact the sponsorship advertising has on the sale of the health insurance product that is the subject of the advertising and the effectiveness of the carrier’s other means of advertising. In addition, while our practice of selling sponsorship advertising is described on our ecommerce platform, it could cause consumers to perceive us as not objective, which could harm our brand and result in a decline in our health insurance sales. It also could adversely impact our relationship with health insurance carriers that do not purchase our sponsorship advertising. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be successful in licensing our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and other third parties. We license the use of our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and agents. Carriers use our platform to offer their own health insurance policies on their websites, and agents use it to power their quoting and online content. If we do not continue to grow our revenue from the license of our technology, or if the rate of growth declines, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. The business of licensing the use of our technology to others could facilitate carrier and other third party competition with us in the sale of health insurance over the Internet and is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to establish relationships with new health insurance carriers, the reliability and performance of our ecommerce platform and the relative cost of developing competing technology. If we are not able to offer health insurance carriers and other third parties a reliable platform to cost-efficiently offer their products over the Internet, our technology licensing business will be unsuccessful. Our HSA platform may not be successful. We have developed a beta version of the business health savings account (HSA) platform to facilitate employer contributions to employee HSAs. We have entered into a relationship with a third party that helped to develop and assists in administering the HSA component of the platform, including its HSA bank account component. This third party has the relationship with one or more banks that may act as custodian of the HSAs established in connection with the platform. The success of the business HSA platform will depend upon a number of factors, including the attractiveness of the platform to businesses and employees; our effectiveness in engaging partners, such as associations, banks and other financial services partners, to market the platform; our ability to otherwise successfully market the platform and make it understandable and easy to navigate; our ability to maintain an effective relationship with the third party that assists in administering the HSA component of the platform; our ability and this third party’s ability to maintain a relationship with a bank that acts as custodian for the HSAs opened using the platform; our ability to enter into and maintain a relationship with a bank that will act as processor for the debit cards that relate to the HSAs opened using the platform; the ability of the third party 20 Table of Contents and a bank to successfully manage and operate the HSA aspects of the platform; our ability and the ability of the third party and relevant bank to avoid process breakdowns, malfunctions, technical difficulties and bugs in the platform; the performance, reliability and availability of the platform and our success in training our customer care center representatives to adequately serve consumers desiring assistance with respect to HSAs. We are dependent upon third parties to operate the platform, and the platform’s success depends in part on our ability to maintain effective relationships with those parties as well as their allocation of sufficient resources and commitment to develop the platform within certain timeframes. The insurance, banking and other laws and regulations applicable to the platform are complicated and in some cases unclear. For example, it is possible that certain states could take the position that the platform or marketing individual insurance into businesses violates certain laws and regulations, including those relating to the sale of insurance to small businesses. The HSA platform also increases our potential exposure under laws and regulations relating to privacy and security as we have access to certain financial and confidential information of consumers using the platform. In light of legal and regulatory risks, we may determine not to launch the platform in certain states. Regardless, we could be subject to adverse legal and regulatory action in any state from departments of insurance and otherwise and may need to cease offering the platform in those states. If the business HSA platform is not successful, our business and operating results could be harmed and our rate of growth may decline. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and operating results. We believe that our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business and that our technology infrastructure currently gives us a competitive advantage in the distribution of individual, family and small business health insurance. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. Although we have pending patent applications in the United States, they may not result in issued patents. We have not filed for protection of our intellectual property in any foreign jurisdiction other than China. We have Chinese-registered computer software copyrights for an internally-developed software system and a project management tool and have filed certain trademark applications in China. We have not filed any patent applications in China. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks, copyrights and patents if issued, may be held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, the law relating to intellectual property is not as developed in China, and our intellectual property rights may not be as respected in China as they are in the United States. Any United States or other patents issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, and given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain of our proprietary technologies. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our management’s attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet and technology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming, 21 Table of Contents expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our services and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our website or that we distribute will likely harm our business and operating results. Our members rely upon information we provide on our website, through our customer care center or otherwise regarding the health insurance plans offered on our website, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our website. Separately, from time to time, we use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and effectuate reform at the state and federal level relating to the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care center or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, and state regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our license to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our management’s attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we have received and may continue to receive inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters. We have become, and may in the future become, involved in litigation in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations in any state, we could be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our license to sell insurance in that state (which could impact our licenses in other jurisdictions), and our business and financial results would be harmed. We would also be harmed to the extent that related publicity damages our reputation as a trusted source of objective information relating to health insurance and its affordability. It could also be costly to defend ourselves regardless of the outcome. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is critical to our success. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. For example, we are required to appoint a single writing agent with each insurance carrier with which we have a relationship in every state. Currently, a single part-time employee acts as writing agent with respect to some carriers with which we have a relationship; however, we are in the process of transferring the duties of writing agent for those carriers to an existing executive officer and appointing a back-up writing agent. If we lose the service of our appointed writing agent, the duties of writing agent will need to be transitioned to other company personnel. Due to our national reach and the large number of carrier partners whose policies are purchased by our members, this transition may be difficult and requires a significant period of time to complete, even if we have a back-up writing agent. If the transition is 22 Table of Contents not successful or takes too long to complete, our agency relationship with particular insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed. All of our senior management and key employees have sold shares of our common stock in the open market, and some have sold a significant portion of their vested holdings. These employees may be more likely to leave us given that they have liquidated some or a substantial percentage of their holdings. Our senior management and key employees work for us on an at-will basis and our business could be harmed if we lose their services. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business and operating results would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly and anticipate that further expansion will be required in order for us to grow our business. Our growth has placed, and if our growth continues will continue to place, increasing and significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems and infrastructure and our other resources. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to manage future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also be required to continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls. These improvements may require significant capital expenditures and will place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls. If we do not successfully implement improvements in these areas, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. The number of health insurance applications submitted through our ecommerce platform has generally increased in our first quarter compared to our fourth quarter and in our third quarter compared to our second quarter. Conversely, we have generally experienced a decline or flattening of submitted applications in our second quarter compared to our first quarter and in our fourth quarter compared to our third quarter. Since a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses are driven by the number of health insurance applications submitted on our ecommerce platform, those expenses are influenced by these patterns. We believe that consumer adoption of the Internet is still in its early stages and, therefore, the reasons for these seasonal patterns are not entirely clear. As the use of the Internet for the purchase and sale of health insurance becomes more widely accepted and our business matures, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we experience may change. Any seasonality that we experience may cause fluctuations in our financial results. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. We may decide to acquire businesses, products and technologies. Our ability as an organization to successfully make acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may require the amortization, write down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • an acquisition undertaken for strategic business purposes may negatively impact our results of operations; • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; 23 Table of Contents • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • we may be required to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs or to maintain our rate of growth; • we may have to issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and • acquisitions may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisition on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue an acquisition, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or that the financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisition. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Issues arising from the implementation of our commission accounting system and an enterprise data management system could affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. We have completed implementation of our commission accounting system for the majority of our health insurance products. In addition, we are in the initial stages of implementing an enterprise data management system. Each of these systems is or will be important to our accounting, financial and operating functions, and the implementation of these systems raises costs and risks associated with the conversion to new systems, including disruption to our normal accounting procedures and problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. During 2007, we completed the initial documentation of our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in 24 Table of Contents material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings differing materially from our projections; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; by tax effects of share-based compensation; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions, or interpretations thereof. For instance, on September 23, 2008, the state of California approved budget legislation which substantially limits the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits. The new law does not affect the amount of net operating losses and tax credits that we expect to ultimately use to offset future California taxes, but limits the amount we can utilize in 2008 and 2009, resulting in an increase in cash taxes in those years. Since the majority of our state taxes are in California, where our headquarters are located, we expect that our cash outlay for federal and state taxes will increase to approximately 6% to 7% of pre-tax income for the year ending December 31, 2009, up from approximately 5% of pre-tax income for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily as a result of this new law. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”), which we adopted on January 1, 2007. In addition, FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There may be exposure that the outcomes from these examinations will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any expansion of our business into foreign countries involves significant risks. We currently do not sell health insurance or license our technology platform outside the United States other than in China. Our subsidiary in China recently launched pilot programs to market and sell insurance online in the city of Xiamen in the Fujian province of China and outside the Fujian province in Shanghai, China. We may attempt to expand our pilot programs to additional geographic regions. We face significant challenges in connection with expanding our business into any foreign country, since we have no prior experience marketing or selling insurance in any foreign jurisdiction. Additionally, demand for private health insurance is not significant in many foreign countries as a result of government-sponsored healthcare systems. In addition to facing many of the same challenges we face domestically, we also would have to overcome other obstacles such as: • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of United States companies to market insurance or otherwise do business in foreign countries; • varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions; • less extensive adoption of the Internet as a commerce medium or information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; and • the adaptation of our website and distribution model to fit the particular foreign country. 25 Table of Contents As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand our services internationally or we may be unsuccessful should we attempt to do so, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Insurance Regulation Compliance with the strict regulatory environment applicable to the health insurance industry and the specific products we sell is difficult and costly. If we fail to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, our business and operating results would be harmed. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated by each state in the United States. For instance, state regulators require us to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and further require that we adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdiction’s insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to: • grant and revoke licenses to transact insurance business; • conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies; • require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance; • authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold; • approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers; • regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages; • approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates; • impose fines and other penalties; and • impose continuing education requirements. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. New insurance laws and regulations also may not be compatible with the sale of health insurance over the Internet or with various aspects of our platform, including electronic signature or our EPI or eApproval technology as a whole. We would face increased legal and regulatory risks in this regard if we were to pursue opportunities to sell products in segments of the health insurance market in which we do not currently operate, such as Medicare or limited benefit products. Failure to comply with insurance laws and regulations or other laws and regulations applicable to or business could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements or the revocation of licenses in a particular jurisdiction, which could significantly increase our operating expenses, prevent us from transacting health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. Because some consumers, marketing partners and health insurance carriers may not be comfortable with the concept of purchasing health insurance using the Internet, any negative publicity may affect us more than it would others in the health insurance industry and would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in insurance laws and regulations may also require that we make significant modifications to our existing technology or practices, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement and could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from state insurance regulators regarding our marketing and business practices. We typically respond by explaining how we believe we are in 26 Table of Contents compliance with relevant regulations or may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. Any modification of our marketing or business practices in response to future regulatory inquiries could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Regulation of the sale of health insurance is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business and operating results. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, once health insurance pricing is set by the carrier and approved by state regulators, it is fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance products offered on our website. If these regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance products sold through our ecommerce platform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Another example of a potentially adverse regulatory change relates to the adoption of “guaranteed issue” laws and regulations in the individual and family health insurance markets. These requirements, which are currently in effect in a limited number of states such as Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, prohibit health insurance carriers from denying health insurance coverage to individuals based on their health status. It has been our experience that substantially fewer health insurance carriers offer plans in the individual and family health insurance market in states with guaranteed issue regulations in effect compared to others. Moreover, health insurance carriers that do offer individual and family plans may charge substantially increased premiums and/or pay reduced commissions to agents. We believe that limited choice and high premiums result in less demand for individual and family health insurance plans which, when coupled with reduced commissions to agents, results in substantially less revenue for us. Our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed if the adoption of guaranteed issue laws or regulations becomes more widespread and results in less demand and/or reduced commissions. In some states, guaranteed issue laws have or could be coupled with related measures that may impact our business. For example, a previous proposal in California included a combination of a number of items, including a guaranteed issue component, a “mandate” that requires all individuals to purchase or otherwise obtain health insurance and a requirement that health insurance carriers spend 85% or more of premium revenue on patient care. The impact of such reforms on our business is unclear. If they are implemented, they could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to additional insurance regulatory risks, because we use the Internet as our distribution platform. In many cases, it is not clear how existing insurance laws and regulations apply to Internet-related health insurance advertisements and transactions. To the extent that new laws or regulations are adopted that conflict with the way we conduct our business, or to the extent that existing laws and regulations are interpreted adversely to us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Risks Related to the Internet and Electronic Commerce Our business is subject to online commerce security risks and, if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, our business will be harmed. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential information of consumers and the transmission of this information to their chosen health insurance carriers. For example, we collect names, addresses, Social 27 Table of Contents Security and credit card numbers, and information regarding the medical history of consumers in connection with their applications for health insurance. We cannot guarantee that we will be free of security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security could damage our reputation and our relationship with our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to significant liability as well as regulatory action, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. The laws governing general commerce on the Internet remain unsettled and it may take years to fully determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations relating to the Internet could harm our business and we could be forced to incur substantial costs in order to comply with them, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to correspond with our consumers or market the availability of our ecommerce platform by email. We use email to market our services to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of email for marketing purposes continue to evolve and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the Internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as “spam.” If an Internet service provider or software program identifies email from us as “spam,” we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members who maintain email accounts with these Internet service providers or who use these software programs. If we are unable to communicate by email with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Consumers depend upon third-party service providers to access our website, and our business and operating results could be harmed as a result of technical difficulties experienced by these service providers. Consumers using our website depend upon Internet, online and other service providers for access to our website. Many of these service providers have experienced significant outages, delays and other difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. Any significant interruption in access to our website or increase in our website’s response time as a result of these difficulties could damage our relationship with insurance carriers, marketing partners and existing and potential members and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and 28 Table of Contents frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business and changes in perceptions relating to the economy; • speculation in the press or investment community; • technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • actual or anticipated regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • major catastrophic events; • announcements or developments relating to the economy; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • the trading volume of our common stock, as well as sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our strategic partners, customers or our current competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • cumulative voting in the election of directors is prohibited, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; 29 Table of Contents • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may, in general, not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 