RISK FACTORS Before you invest in our ordinary or preference shares, you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the following risk factors, elsewhere in or incorporated by reference into this report and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. If the events described below or other unpredicted events occur, then the trading price of our shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Litigation and Regulatory Matters. If we do not comply with the many governmental regulations applicable to our business or with the corporate integrity agreement between us and the U.S. government, we could be excluded from government health care reimbursement programs or our authority to conduct business could be terminated, either of which would result in a material decrease in our revenue. Our operations in both our provider business and our products business are subject to extensive governmental regulation in virtually every country in which we operate. We are also subject to other laws of general applicability, including antitrust laws. The applicable regulations, which differ from country to country, cover areas that include: • the quality, safety and efficacy of medical and pharmaceutical products and supplies; • the operation of manufacturing facilities, laboratories and dialysis clinics; • accurate reporting and billing for government and third-party reimbursement; and • compensation of medical directors and other financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources. Failure to comply with one or more of these laws or regulations, may give rise to a number of legal consequences. These include, in particular, monetary and administrative penalties, increased costs for compliance with government orders, complete or partial exclusion from government reimbursement programs or complete or partial curtailment of our authority to conduct business. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s pharmaceutical products are subject to detailed, rigorous and continually changing regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state authorities. These include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, quality control, quality assurance, advertising and post-marketing reporting, including adverse 3 Table of Contents event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. In addition to the Company’s facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA may suspend, revoke, or adversely amend the authority necessary for manufacture, marketing, or sale of supplies. The Company and its suppliers must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations, and if such compliance is not maintained, could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions in the future. These possible regulatory actions could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of the Company’s products and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to the Company’s business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of the Company’s products; a total or partial shutdown of production in its suppliers’ facilities while the alleged violation is remedied; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events, in combination or alone, could disrupt the Company’s business and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. (“FMCH”), our principal North American subsidiary, is party to a corporate integrity agreement with the U.S. government. This agreement, which was signed on January 18, 2000 in conjunction with a settlement of claims previously asserted against FMCH, requires that FMCH maintain a comprehensive compliance program, including a staff of sufficient compliance personnel, a written code of conduct, training programs, regulatory compliance policies and procedures, annual audits and periodic reporting to the government. The corporate integrity agreement permits the U.S. government to exclude FMCH and its subsidiaries from participation in U.S. federal health care programs (in particular, Medicare and Medicaid) if there is a material breach of the agreement that FMCH does not cure within thirty days after FMCH receives written notice of the breach. We derive approximately 38% of our consolidated revenue from U.S. federal health care benefit programs. Consequently, if FMCH commits a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement that results in the exclusion of FMCH or its subsidiaries from continued participation in those programs, it would significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely upon our management structure, regulatory and legal resources and the effective operation of our compliance programs to direct, manage and monitor our operations to comply with government regulations and the corporate integrity agreement. If employees were to deliberately or inadvertently fail to adhere to these regulations, then our authority to conduct business could be terminated and our operations could be significantly curtailed. Such actions could also lead to claims for repayment or other sanctions. Any such terminations or reductions could materially reduce our sales, with a resulting material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2004, FMCH and its Spectra Renal Management subsidiary and RCG received subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice, Eastern District of New York, in connection with a civil and criminal investigation, which requires production of a broad range of documents relating to our operations, with specific attention to documents relating to laboratory testing for parathyroid hormone (“PTH”) levels and vitamin D therapies. We are cooperating with the government’s requests for information. While we believe that we have complied with applicable laws relating to PTH testing and use of vitamin D therapies, an adverse determination in this investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. On April 1, 2005, FMCH was served with a subpoena from the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri in connection with a joint civil and criminal investigation of our company. On August 9, 2005, RCG was served with a similar subpoena. The subpoenas require production of a broad range of documents relating to our operations, including documents related to, among other things, clinical quality programs, business development activities, medical director compensation and physician relations, joint ventures and our anemia management program. The subpoenas cover the period from December 1, 1996 through the present. We are unable to predict whether proceedings might be initiated against us, when the investigation might be concluded or what the impact of this joint investigation might be on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 4 Table of Contents A change in U.S. government reimbursement for dialysis care could materially decrease our revenues and operating profit For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 38% of our consolidated revenues resulted from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Legislative changes or changes in government reimbursement practice may affect the reimbursement rates for the services we provide, as well as the scope of Medicare and Medicaid coverage. A decrease in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates or covered services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization and Improvement Act was enacted. For information regarding the effects of this legislation on reimbursement rates, see Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview Regulatory and Legal Matters — Reimbursement.” A reduction in reimbursement for or a change in the utilization of EPO could materially reduce our revenue and operating profit. An interruption of supply or our inability to obtain satisfactory terms for EPO could reduce our revenues Reimbursement and revenue from the administration of erythropoietin, or EPO, accounted for approximately 21% of total revenue in our North America segment for the year ended December 31, 2006. EPO is produced in the U.S. by a single source manufacturer, Amgen Inc. Our new contract with Amgen USA, Inc., a subsidiary of Amgen, Inc. covers the period from October 1, 2006 to December 31, 2011. Pricing is based on Amgen’s list price and is subject to change. An increase in Amgen’s price for EPO without a corresponding and timely increase in CMS’s reimbursement for EPO, a reduction of the current overfill amount in EPO vials which we currently use (liquid medications, such as EPO, typically include a small overfill amount to ensure that the fill volume can be extracted from the vial as administered to the patient), or an interruption of supply could reduce our revenues from, or increase our costs in connection with, the administration of EPO, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On April 1, 2006, the Centers for Medicare and Medical Services (“CMS”) implemented a new national policy for claims for EPO and Aranesp administered to ESRD patients in renal dialysis facilities. Specifically, CMS expects a 25% reduction in the dose administered to an ESRD patient whose hematocrit level reaches 39.0 (or hemoglobin of 13.0). If the dose is not reduced by 25%, CMS will pay the claim as if the dose reduction had occurred. See “Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview Regulatory and Legal Matters — Reimbursement.” A decrease in EPO reimbursement or a change in EPO utilization, caused, for example, by CMS’ new anemia monitoring policy, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition in November 2006, the FDA issued an alert regarding a newly published clinical study showing that patients treated with an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) such as EPO and dosed to a target hemoglobin concentration of 13.5 g/dL are at a significantly increased risk for serious and life threatening cardiovascular complications, as compared to use of the ESA to target a hemoglobin concentration of 11.3 g/dL. The alert recommended, among other things, that physicians and other healthcare professionals should consider adhering to dosing to maintain the recommended target hemoglobin range of 10 to 12 g/dL. Managed care plans usually negotiate lower reimbursement rates than other health plans. As such plans grow, amounts paid for our services and products by non-governmental payors could decrease We obtain a significant portion of our revenues from reimbursement provided by non-governmental third-party payors, such as private medical insurers. Although non-governmental payors generally pay at higher reimbursement rates than governmental payors, managed care plans generally negotiate lower reimbursement rates than indemnity insurance plans. Some managed care plans and indemnity plans also utilize a capitated fee structure or limit reimbursement for ancillary services. The increasing consolidation in the commercial insurance sector in the United States has put us under increasing pressure to limit the rate of increase or even reduce the prices for our services and products. If managed care plans in the United States reduce reimbursements, our sales could decrease. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents If our joint ventures violate the law, our business could be adversely affected. A number of the dialysis centers we operate are owned by joint ventures in which we hold a controlling interest and one or more hospitals, physicians or physician practice groups hold a minority interest. The physician owners may also provide medical director services to those centers or other centers we own and operate. Substantially all of these joint ventures were acquired in the RCG Merger. While we have structured our joint ventures to comply with as many of the criteria as possible for safe harbor protection under the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, our investments in these joint venture arrangements do not satisfy all elements of such safe harbor. While we have established comprehensive compliance policies, procedures and programs to ensure ethical and compliant joint venture business operations, if one or more of our joint ventures were found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law, we could be required to restructure or terminate them. We also could be required to repay to Medicare amounts received by the joint ventures pursuant to any prohibited referrals, and we could be subject to monetary penalties. Imposition of any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Proposals for health care reform could decrease our revenues and operating profit The U.S. federal and certain U.S. state governments have been considering proposals to modify their current health care systems to improve access to health care and control costs. See Item 4.B, “Information on the Company — Business Overview Regulatory and Legal Matters — Reimbursement — U.S.” for a discussion of the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization and Improvement Act of 2003. Other countries, especially those in Western Europe, are also considering health care reform proposals that could materially alter their government-sponsored health care programs by reducing reimbursement payments. Any reduction could affect the pricing of our products and the profitability of our services, especially as we intend to expand our international business. We cannot predict whether and when these reform proposals will be adopted in countries in which we operate or what impact they might have on us. Any decrease in spending or other significant changes in state funding in countries in which we operate, particularly significant changes in the U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business A significant portion of our North American profits are dependent on the services we provide to a small portion of our patients who are covered by private insurance. In recent reviews of dialysis reimbursement, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, also known as MedPAC, has noted that Medicare payments for dialysis services are less than the average costs that providers incur to provide the services. Since Medicaid rates are comparable to those of Medicare and because Medicare only pays us 80% of the Medicare allowable amount (the patient, Medicaid or secondary insurance being responsible for the remaining 20%), the amount we receive from Medicare and Medicaid is less than our average cost per treatment. As a result, the payments we receive from private payors both subsidize the losses we incur on services for Medicare and Medicaid patients and generate a substantial portion of the profits we report. We estimate that Medicare and Medicaid are the primary payors for approximately 80% of the patients to whom we provide care but that only 54% of our net revenues in 2006 were derived from Medicare and Medicaid. Therefore, if the private payors who pay for the care of the other 20% of our patients reduce their payments for our services, or if we experience a shift in our revenue mix toward Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement, then our revenue, cash flow and earnings would decrease, and our cash flow and profits would be disproportionately impacted. Over the last few years, we have generally been able to implement modest annual price increases for private insurers and managed care organizations, but government reimbursement has remained flat or has been increased at rates below typical consumer price index (“CPI”) increases. There can be no assurance of similar future price increases to private insurers and managed care organizations. Any reductions in reimbursement from private insurers and managed care organizations could adversely impact our operating results. Any reduction in our ability to attract private pay patients to utilize our dialysis services relative to historical levels could adversely 6 Table of Contents impact our operating results. Any of the following events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results: • a portion of our business that is currently reimbursed by private insurers or hospitals may become reimbursed by managed care organizations, which generally have lower rates for our services; or • a portion of our business that is currently reimbursed by private insurers at rates based on our billed charges may become reimbursed under a contract at lower rates. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to continue to make acquisitions The health care industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years, particularly in the dialysis services sector. Our ability to make future acquisitions depends, in part, on our available financial resources and could be limited by restrictions imposed in the United States of America by the federal government or under our credit agreements. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue ordinary shares for non-cash consideration without first offering the shares to our existing shareholders, which could dilute the holdings of these shareholders. We may also need to borrow additional debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses relating to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our reported earnings or our earnings per share and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, any financing that we might need for future acquisitions might be available to us only on terms that restrict our business. Acquisitions that we complete are also subject to risks relating to, among other matters, integration of the acquired businesses (including combining the acquired company’s infrastructure and management information systems with ours, harmonization of its marketing, patient service and logistical procedures with ours and, potentially, reconciling divergent corporate and management cultures), possible non-realization of anticipated synergies from the combination, potential loss of key personnel or customers of the acquired companies, and the risk of assuming unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or not uncovered during due diligence. If we are not able to effect acquisitions on reasonable terms, there could be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with other dialysis products and services companies in seeking suitable acquisition targets and the continuing consolidation of dialysis providers and combinations of dialysis providers with dialysis product manufacturers could affect future growth of our product sales. If we are not able to continue to effect acquisitions on reasonable terms, especially in the international area, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors could develop superior technology or otherwise impact our product sales We face numerous competitors in both our dialysis services business and our dialysis products business, some of which may possess substantial financial, marketing or research and development resources. Competition could materially adversely affect the future pricing and sale of our products and services. In particular, technological innovation has historically been a significant competitive factor in the dialysis products business. The introduction of new products by competitors could render one or more of our products less competitive or even obsolete. Generic competition Our branded pharmaceutical product business is subject to significant risk as a result of competition from manufacturers of generic drugs. Either the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or the “at-risk” launch by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our branded pharmaceutical products, could result in the loss of a major portion of sales of that branded pharmaceutical product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. If physicians prescribe Aranesp® or similar anemia fighting medications for hemodialysis patients or physicians, we could be less profitable. In addition to EPO®, Amgen has developed and obtained FDA approval for another drug to treat anemia that is marketed as Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa). Similarly, Roche Laboratories has developed CERA®, which is under 7 Table of Contents FDA review for use in the U.S. Aranesp and CERA are longer acting forms of bio-engineered proteins that, like EPO®, can be used to treat anemia. EPO® is usually administered in conjunction with each dialysis treatment. Aranesp® and CERA® can remain effective for two to four weeks. If physicians shift prescriptions from EPO® to Aranesp® or CERA® for the treatment of dialysis patients, then our earnings could be materially and adversely affected by either of the following factors: • the dosing volumes of CERA® or Aranesp® required to treat anemia in dialysis patients may be less than the corresponding volume of EPO®, without an offsetting adjustment in relative reimbursement rates; • our margins realized from the administration of Aranesp® or CERA® could be lower than the margins realized on the administration of EPO®; or • physicians could decide to administer Aranesp® or CERA® in their offices, and we would not recognize net revenue or profit from the administration of EPO® or Aranesp®. We are exposed to products liability and other claims which could result in significant costs and liability which we may not be able to insure on acceptable terms in the future Health care companies are subject to claims alleging negligence, products liability, breach of warranty, malpractice and other legal theories that may involve large claims and significant defense costs whether or not liability is ultimately imposed. Health care products may also be subject to recalls and patent infringement claims. We cannot assure you that significant claims will not be asserted against us, that significant adverse verdicts will not be reached against us for patent infringements or that large scale recalls of our products will not become necessary. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which we operate provide legal rights to users of pharmaceutical products that could increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability and patent infringement claims, other actions for negligence or breach of contract and product recalls or related sanctions could result in significant costs. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 8.A.7, “Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” While we have been able to obtain liability insurance in the past, to cover our business risks, we cannot assure you that such insurance will be available in the future either on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, FMCH, our largest subsidiary, is partially self-insured for professional, product and general liability, auto liability and worker’s compensation claims, up to pre-determined levels above which our third-party insurance applies. A successful claim in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liability claims, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also may have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, which could in turn reduce our sales and profitability. If physicians and other referral sources cease referring patients to our dialysis clinics or cease purchasing our dialysis products, our revenues would decrease Our dialysis services business is dependent upon patients choosing our clinics as the location for their treatments. Patients may select a clinic based, in whole or in part, on the recommendation of their physician. We believe that physicians and other clinicians typically consider a number of factors when recommending a particular dialysis facility to an end-stage renal disease patient, including, but not limited to, the quality of care at a clinic, the competency of a clinic’s staff, convenient scheduling, and a clinic’s location and physical condition. Physicians may change their facility recommendations at any time, which may result in the transfer of our existing patients to competing clinics, including clinics established by the physicians themselves. At most of our clinics, a relatively small number of physicians account for the referral of all or a significant portion of the patient base. Our dialysis care business also depends on recommendations by hospitals, managed care plans and other health care institutions. If a significant number of physicians, hospitals or other health care institutions cease referring their patients to our clinics, this would reduce our dialysis care revenue and could materially adversely affect our overall operations. The decision to purchase our dialysis products and other services or competing dialysis products and other services will be made in some instances by medical directors and other referring physicians at our dialysis clinics 8 Table of Contents and by the managing medical personnel and referring physicians at other dialysis clinics, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. A decline in physician recommendations or recommendations from other sources for purchases of our products or ancillary services would reduce our dialysis product and other services revenue, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled medical, technical and engineering personnel, we may be unable to manage our growth or continue our technological development Our continued growth in the provider business will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, such as highly skilled nurses and other medical personnel. Competition for those employees is intense and the current nursing shortage in North America has increased our personnel and recruiting costs. Moreover, we believe that future success in the provider business will be significantly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified physicians to serve as medical directors of our dialysis clinics. If we are unable to achieve that goal or if doing so requires us to bear increased costs this could adversely impact our growth and results of operations. Our dialysis products business depends on the development of new products, technologies and treatment concepts to be competitive. Competition is also intense for skilled engineers and other technical research and development personnel. If we are unable to obtain and retain the services of key personnel, the ability of our officers and key employees to manage our growth would suffer and our operations could suffer in other respects. These factors could preclude us from integrating acquired companies into our operations, which could increase our costs and prevent us from realizing synergies from acquisitions. Lack of skilled research and development personnel could impair our technological development, which would increase our costs and impair our reputation for production of technologically advanced products. We face specific risks from international operations We operate dialysis clinics in over 25 countries and sell a range of equipment, products and services to customers in over 100 countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • The economic situation in developing countries could deteriorate; • Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect profitability; • We could face difficulties in enforcing and collecting accounts receivable under some countries’ legal systems; • Local regulations could restrict our ability to obtain a direct ownership interest in dialysis clinics or other operations; • Political and economic instability, especially in developing and newly industrializing countries, could disrupt our operations; • Some customers and governments could have longer payment cycles, with resulting adverse effects on our cash flow; and • Some countries could impose additional taxes or restrict the import of our products. Any one or more of these factors could increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or disrupt our operations, with possible material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Diverging views of the financial authorities could require us to make additional tax payments We are subject to ongoing tax audits in the U.S., Germany and other jurisdictions. We have received notices of unfavorable adjustments and disallowances in connection with certain of these audits and, in 2005 and 2006, we paid $78 million and $99 million, respectively, in connection with tax audits in Germany and the U.S., respectively. We are contesting and, in some cases, appealing certain of these unfavorable determinations. We may be subject to additional unfavorable adjustments and disallowances in connection with ongoing audits. If our 9 Table of Contents objections and any final audit appeals are unsuccessful, we could be required to make additional tax payments. We are not currently able to determine the timing of these potential additional tax payments. If all potential additional tax payments were to become due contemporaneously, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating cash flow in the relevant reporting period. Risks Relating to our Securities The public market for our preference shares and our preference share ADSs is limited and highly illiquid. The delisting of our preference share ADSs would further reduce the market for our preference shares Our preference shares are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and ADSs representing the preference shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). However, as a result of the conversion and transformation, the number of our preference shares outstanding has been reduced from 27,762,179 shares outstanding at December 31, 2005, to 1,237,145 at December 31, 2006. As a result, the public market for our preference shares is limited and highly illiquid. At February 10, 2006, upon registration of the conversion and the transformation in the commercial register in Germany, the number of preference shares outstanding included 63,891 preference shares in the form of 191,673 American Depositary Shares. We have been advised by the NYSE that if the number of publicly-held FMC-AG & Co. KGaA preference share ADSs falls below 100,000, the preference share ADSs are likely to be delisted from the NYSE. Without a New York Stock Exchange or a Nasdaq Stock Market listing, the market for our preference share ADSs would be further reduced or eliminated. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends or implement certain elements of our business strategy We have a substantial amount of debt. At December 31, 2006, we have consolidated debt of $5.579 billion, including $1.254 billion of our trust preferred securities, and consolidated total shareholders’ equity of $4.870 billion, resulting in a ratio of total debt to equity of 1.15. Our substantial level of debt present the risk that we might not generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness or that our leveraged capital structure could limit our ability to finance acquisitions and develop additional projects, to compete effectively or to operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. Our 2006 Senior Credit Agreement, European Investment Bank Agreements, Euro Notes and the indentures relating to our trust preferred securities include covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios or meet other financial tests. Under our senior credit agreement, we are obligated to maintain a minimum consolidated fixed charge ratio (ratio of EBITDAR — consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) plus rent — to consolidated fixed charges) and subject to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio (ratio of consolidated funded debt to EBITDA). Our 2006 Senior Credit Agreement and our indentures include other covenants which, among other things, restrict or have the effect of restricting our ability to dispose of assets, incur debt, pay dividends and other restricted payments, create liens or make capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions. These covenants may otherwise limit our activities. The breach of any of the covenants could result in a default and acceleration of the indebtedness under the credit agreement or the indentures, which could, in turn, create additional defaults and acceleration of the indebtedness under the agreements relating to our other long-term indebtedness which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fresenius AG owns 100% of the shares in the general partner of our Company and is able to control our management and strategy Fresenius AG owns approximately 36.6% of our voting ordinary shares and 100% of the outstanding shares of the general partner of the Company. As the sole shareholder of the general partner of the Company, Fresenius AG has the sole right to elect the supervisory board of the general partner which, in turn, elects the management board of the general partner. The management board of the general partner is responsible for the management of the Company. Through its ownership of the general partner, Fresenius AG is able to exercise control over the management and strategy of FMC-AG & Co. KGaA even though it owns less than a majority of our outstanding voting shares. Such control limits public shareholder influence on management of the Company 10 Table of Contents and precludes a takeover or change of control of the Company without Fresenius AG’s consent, either or both of which could adversely affect the prices of our shares. Because we are not organized under U.S. law, we are subject to certain less detailed disclosure requirements under U.S. federal securities laws Under the pooling agreement that we have entered into for the benefit of minority holders of our ordinary shares and holders of our preference shares (including, in each case, holders of American Depositary Receipts representing beneficial ownership of such shares), we have agreed to file quarterly reports with the SEC, to prepare annual and quarterly financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and to file information with the SEC with respect to annual and general meetings of our shareholders. These pooling agreements also require that the supervisory board of Fresenius Medical Care Management AG, our general partner, include at least two members who do not have any substantial business or professional relationship with Fresenius AG, Fresenius Medical Care Management AG or FMC-AG & Co. KGaA and its affiliates and requires the consent of those independent directors to certain transactions between us and Fresenius AG and its affiliates. We are a “foreign private issuer,” as defined in the SEC’s regulations, and consequently we are not subject to all of the same disclosure requirements applicable to domestic companies. We are exempt from the SEC’s proxy rules, and our annual reports contain less detailed disclosure than reports of domestic issuers regarding such matters as management, executive compensation and outstanding options, beneficial ownership of our securities and certain related party transactions. Also, our officers, directors and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our equity securities are exempt from the reporting requirements and short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are also generally exempt from most of the governance rule revisions recently adopted by the New York Stock Exchange, other than the obligation to maintain an audit committee in accordance with Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These limits on available information about our company and exemptions from many governance rules applicable to U.S. domestic issuers may adversely affect the market prices for our securities. 