ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. We are a development-stage company and might not be able to commercialize any product candidates. We are a development-stage company and have not demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; and • conducting sales and marketing activities. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, negotiating in-licensing agreements with out partners, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, participating in regulatory discussions with the FDA, the EMEA and other regulatory agencies and undertaking pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. We currently have no product revenue and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenue. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenue. Currently, our primary product candidates are droxidopa and CH-1504, and neither is approved by the FDA nor, with the exception of droxidopa which has Japanese approval, any other regulatory agency for sale. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and development expenditures, including anticipated 2008 expenses of approximately $40 million, from cash on hand, other equity or debt financings, licensing fees and grants. If needed, we may seek additional sources of financing, which might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might not be able to complete planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing could involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we might never achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and might never become profitable. From inception through December 31, 2007 we had losses of $34.7 million, and we anticipate losses in the range of $38 to $60 million during the 12 to 18 months commencing January 2008. Actual losses will depend on a number of considerations, including: • the pace and success of pre-clinical development and clinical trials for droxidopa, antifolates and other product candidates; • seeking regulatory approval for our various product candidates; • discussions with regulatory agencies concerning the design of our clinical trials • our ability to identify and recruit patients into our clinical trials at costs consistent with our current estimates; • the pace of development of new intellectual property for our existing product candidates; • possible out-licensing of our product candidates; • in-licensing and development of additional product candidates; • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hiring additional personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and development expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We might not be able to generate revenue or achieve profitability in the future and are unlikely to do so in the near term. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our securities. We might not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize any product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates including droxidopa, CH-1504, or any other product candidate either currently in our drug candidate portfolio or which we might acquire or develop in the future. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidate in the United States and approvals from equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA a NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process might also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals might: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenue from, a product candidate; • impose costly procedures on us; and 20 Table of Contents • diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of these product candidates, particularly droxidopa or CH-1504, will severely undermine our business and could substantially extend the period before we have a saleable product, leaving us without any source of revenue until another product candidate can be developed. There is no guarantee that we will ever be able to develop or acquire another product candidate. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize any drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize product candidates for sale outside the United States. Our drug candidates may require extensive reformulation work prior to approval or they may prove unsuitable for further development regardless of reformulation efforts. Our development program for CH-1504 was delayed in May of 2006 as a result of data that came to our attention concerning possible bioavailability issues and animal data suggesting significant variations in blood plasma levels. We have identified and run bioavailability tests on a different formulation of CH-1504 that we believe has improved the drug relative to these issues; however we cannot determine at this time whether these improvements will be adequate to permit FDA and other regulatory approvals. Other formulation issues may arise or prove more significant than anticipated, either with CH-1504 or with other drug candidates in our portfolio. Our product candidate CH-1504 has had only limited formal clinical trials. Our product candidate, CH-1504, is in an early stage of development and requires extensive clinical testing. In June 2005, we commenced Phase I dose escalation clinical trials of CH-1504 in humans in the United Kingdom at Guy’s Hospital in London, under the Clinical Trial Authorization issued by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the United Kingdom’s health authority. Following the recent reformulation program, we began additional clinical testing to ascertain equivalency ratios for the reformulated compound as compared to the compound used during the Phase I trials in the UK. Following this testing we commenced Phase II clinical trials for CH-1504 in rheumatoid arthritis. After the completion of those trials, we may initiate several additional Phase II studies in other indications and, as appropriate, Phase III studies in rheumatoid arthritis with or without a partner. Upon completion of the Phase III studies in rheumatoid arthritis, we hope to use data from these studies to file a New Drug Application, or NDA in the United States. We currently estimate a global filing of the NDA no sooner than 2011. However, at any point during the process we might decide to focus our efforts on a different lead compound, and we cannot predict with any certainty the success or timing of our clinical trials, if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval of this product candidate or whether such an NDA will be accepted. There has been only very limited testing of our I-3D product candidates. Our I-3D product candidates being jointly developed with Active Biotech are early in their development. None of the candidates have had adequate toxicology testing in animals to permit clinical testing and there is no clinical evidence of efficacy for any of these candidates, despite limited similarities with compounds currently marketed by others. Animal toxicology trials on our I-3D compounds may not permit further development of these drugs or we may have to carry out toxicology trials on several compounds before we find one that is appropriate for clinical testing, if at all. Once clinical trials are undertaken, the compound or compounds may not prove adequately safe and efficacious in humans and may not be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. 21 Table of Contents Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. For example, because we did not receive orphan drug status from the EMEA for droxidopa as a treatment for Parkinson’s disease, our clinical trials for that indication might have to be more involved and take longer to complete and get reviewed than otherwise would have been the case. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials might be delayed by several factors, including: • unforeseen safety issues; • clarification of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment, including the aggregate of approximately 600 required to complete the four Phase II or Phase III trials that are or are expected to be ongoing in 2008; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and • unexpected emergence of competitive drugs against which our compounds might compete for clinical trial resources or need to be tested. In addition, we or the FDA or another governing regulatory agency may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory agency finds deficiencies in the conduct of these or our regulatory submissions. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for future clinical trials. The results of our clinical trials might not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process might fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and might delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenue. Preliminary clinical trials conducted previously on our CH-1504 compound involved a small patient population over a relatively short period and because of these factors, the results might not be indicative of future results. Moreover, these initial trials were not performed in accordance with standards normally required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. We intend to explore additional indications for droxidopa, however these programs may not prove successful. We have announced our interest in exploring certain additional indications for droxidopa and we may make similar announcements in the future. While trials conducted by our partner, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. (DSP), for the Japanese market provide evidence of efficacy for certain indications, other indications may be explored for which we have no existing clinical evidence of efficacy. Such trials are likely to be very costly. We do not have market approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for any of the indications we are exploring and there are no guarantees that additional clinical trials will provide new evidence of efficacy in the targeted indications or permit us to gain market approval from regulatory agencies. 22 Table of Contents Physicians and patients might not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, physicians and patients might not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug; • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; • understanding by prescribing physicians of the medical conditions we are attempting to address; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect that sales of our product candidates could, if approved, generate a substantial portion of our product revenue for an extended period, the failure of such a drug to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent clinical research organizations, investigators and other collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. They might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our drug development program also depends upon our partners who are outside our control. We have licensed certain rights related to droxidopa from DSP and depend upon them for data and support in advancing our clinical program for this compound. In addition, DSP is currently the sole manufacturer of this compound for our clinical program. Similarly, we are pursuing the development of the I-3D portfolio with our partner, Active Biotech AB and depend on their cooperation to advance the program and to share the cost of development and testing. Without the timely support of these partners, either program could suffer significant delays, require significantly higher spending or face cancellation. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture any product candidates. We have only limited experience in drug formulation and no experience in drug manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. While we have a contract in place with DSP covering droxidopa, we currently have no contract for the commercial scale manufacture of CH-1504 or other antifolates or I-3D compounds. We intend to contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If any of our current product candidates or any other product candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: • We might not be able to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This 23 Table of Contents approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. • Our contract manufacturers might not perform as agreed or might not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and only limited internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities other than as provided by our Vice President of Sales and Marketing. We do not anticipate having significant additional resources within the next six months to allocate to the sales and marketing of our proposed products. As a result, our future success depends, in part, on: • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships for these capabilities, either through out-licensing of our compounds or through contracting organizations; • the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development; and • such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and/or sell any such products. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products or if we decide to add internal resources to complement third party resources, significant development expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop our own marketing and sales force with technical expertise. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. The market for our product candidate CH-1504 is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. The initial market for droxidopa, while smaller, has well established generic competition. Other markets for droxidopa, such as fibromyalgia, are emerging with new and heavily marketed offerings. If CH-1504, droxidopa or other product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products might provide greater therapeutic convenience, efficacy or other benefits for a specific indication than our products or might offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have compounds already approved or in 24 Table of Contents development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; • launching, marketing and selling drugs; and • post-marketing safety surveillance. Developments by competitors might render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis include, but are not limited to, Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Aventis, Barr Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Hoffman—La Roche, Johnson & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Mylan Laboratories. Companies that currently sell compounds used for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension include Shire, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Eon Labs, Impax Laboratories and King Pharmaceuticals. Alternative technologies are being developed to treat rheumatoid arthritis by numerous companies including Rigel and Celltech, which are in advanced clinical trials. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Our success, competitive position and future revenue will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications or those patent applications that we may file or license in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Moreover, we cannot predict the degree of patent protection that will be afforded by those patent applications that do result in issuance. Although we generally seek the broadest patent protection available for our proprietary compounds, we may not be able to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of any particular compound and may be limited to protecting a new method of use for the compound or otherwise restricted in our ability to prevent others from exploiting the compound. If our patent protection for any particular compound is limited to a particular method of use or indication such that, if a third party were to obtain approval of the compound for use in another indication, we could be subject to competition arising from off-label use. Moreover, our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. If a third party legally challenges our patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our U.S. or foreign 25 Table of Contents patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our patents or other intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar products. In addition, we do not anticipate having patent protection on our droxidopa compound when and if it receives market approval by the FDA. While the orphan drug designation for this compound by the FDA will provide seven (7) years of market exclusivity, we will not be able to exclude other companies from manufacturing and marketing this compound beyond that timeframe. Claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights may result in liability for damages or prevent or delay our developmental and commercialization efforts. If a third party were to file a patent infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent infringed, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any necessary license may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain themselves as a result. We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights. Failure to protect our patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Existing patents and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses might not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. 26 Table of Contents Some jurisdictions have laws that permit the government to force a patentee to grant a license to a third party for commercialization of a patented product if the government concludes that the product is not sufficiently developed or not meeting the health needs of the population. Such compulsory licensing laws are very rarely invoked outside of South America and Africa. In addition, a number of countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a new drug, it is possible that any related patent may expire before any of our product candidates can be commercialized or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. In either case, this would reduce any advantages of the patent. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under current and future license agreements, we could lose license rights which would adversely affect our business. We are a party to a license agreement with M. Gopal Nair under which we license patent rights for our product candidate CH-1504 and other antifolates. Similarly, we license patent and/or certain other rights from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd. (DSP) for droxidopa and from Active Biotech AB for the I-3D portfolio of compounds. We may enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various milestone payments, royalty payments and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. If a licensor challenges our license position, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our license agreement with Dr. Nair reserves rights to the licensor in India. Therefore, we will not commercialize our antifolates in India. Our license agreement with DSP reserves rights to the licensor in Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan which preclude our commercialization of droxidopa in those markets. Our license agreement with Active Biotech AB grants rights to us only in North America and South America with Active Biotech retaining commercialization rights in the rest of the world. If we are unable to enforce trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, our competitive position might be harmed. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors, as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents are unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, it is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements might not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we might have to: • obtain licenses, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; 27 Table of Contents • abandon an infringing drug candidate; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. Our ability to generate product revenue will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if a product candidate is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage might not be available and reimbursement levels might be inadequate to cover our drug. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product, once approved, market acceptance and our revenue could be reduced. Specifically, not all physicians recognize a separate indication for symptomatic neurogenic orthostatic hypotension and we cannot provide assurances that reimbursement will be approved by the relevant decision makers even if droxidopa receives market approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Our potential future earnings may be reduced should we decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates. We may decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates, reducing future profits available to us. Should we license our antifolate candidates to another pharmaceuticals company, it would allow the partner to market and sell our antifolate compounds in one or more markets around the world. Similarly, while we currently intend to market and sell droxidopa in the United States, we may consider out-licensing it for Europe and other world markets. If either the antifolates or droxidopa are licensed to a strategic partner, the profit available to us may be substantially reduced from what might otherwise be possible should we retain all rights to the products and market and sell them directly. We might not successfully manage our growth. We are a small, development stage company. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We currently have thirteen (13) employees and anticipate potentially doubling our number of employees over the next 12 months. To manage this growth and address the upcoming expiration of our existing facilities lease, we have located new facilities, negotiated a lease and will need to complete relocation with minimal business disruption. We may also have to augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train even more qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. 28 Table of Contents We might be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities might involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures, and those of our partners, for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state, local and, where applicable, foreign laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products might require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. As a small, development stage company, we are highly dependent on our executive officers, including particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Simon Pedder, Ph.D., and our principal scientific, regulatory and medical advisors. Dr. Pedder is the only executive officer whose employment with us is governed by an employment agreement, and the term of employment under that agreement expires in May 2009. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. As a small, development stage company, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in pre-clinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success. We might incur substantial liabilities and might be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we might incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Although we carry clinical trial insurance, we might not be able to renew such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or our intended collaborators may be unable to obtain such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, that indemnification might not be available or adequate should any claim arise. We may be subjected to unforeseen or unanticipated market conditions that could adversely affect our available working capital and financial position. We hold positions in short-term investments that consist of certain auction rate securities (ARS). These investments represent interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of student loans with long-term nominal maturities but for which interest rates are normally reset monthly through a dutch auction process. Consistent with our policy, all ARS investments have at least A credit ratings at the time of purchase, However, beginning in February 2008, auctions for the resale of such securities have ceased to reliably support 29 Table of Contents the liquidity of these securities. We expect to continue to receive interest according to the stated terms of the investments, including above market interest rates related to the auction failures. Although such loss of liquidity will most likely be short-term in nature as a secondary market for the securities emerges or successful auctions resume, we cannot be certain that liquidity will be restored in the foreseeable future, in which case we may be unable to sustain our development programs as currently planned. We may not be able to access cash by selling these securities for which there is insufficient demand without a loss of principal until a future auction for these investments is successful, a secondary market emerges, they are redeemed by their issuer or they mature. If liquidity is not reestablished in the short term, we may also be required to reclassify these investments as long-term assets based on the nominal maturity date of the underlying securities. In addition, the value of such investments could potentially be impaired on a temporary or other-than-temporary basis. If it is determined that the value of the investment is impaired on an other-than-temporary basis, we would be required to write down the investment to its fair value and record a charge to earnings for the amount of the impairment. The trading volume of our common stock is limited and our investors may encounter difficulties selling significant quantities of our stock without adversely impacting the price at which they can sell. Since listing with the NASDAQ Stock Market in May 2006, the trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from day to day and often the number of shares traded has been low. No assurance can be given that a more liquid trading market will develop. The prices at which are shares of our common stock are traded will likely be volatile. You should expect the prices at which our common stock is traded to be highly volatile. Since the commencement of NASDAQ trading in May 2006, the price has varied from a low of $2.43 to a high of $8.10. The expected volatile price of our stock will make it difficult to predict the value of your investment, to sell your shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of other factors might also affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delays or failures in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that might have been unrelated or disproportionate to the 30 Table of Contents operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors might seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have never paid dividends and do not intend to pay cash dividends. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance our future operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 