D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. You should carefully consider each of the following risks together with the other information incorporated into this Annual Report when evaluating the Company’s business and its prospect. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently considers immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks relating to our business and operations actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 7 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Shipping Industry and Our Operations The cyclical nature of the international drybulk shipping industry may lead to decreases in charter rates and lower vessel values, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The shipping business, including the dry cargo market, is cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing severe fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. For example, during the period from January 4, 2005 to December 31, 2009, the Baltic Exchange’s Panamax time charter average daily rates experienced a low of $3,537 and a high of $94,977. Additionally, during the period from January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, the Baltic Exchange’s Capesize time charter average daily rates experienced a low of $8,997 and a high of $93,197 and the Baltic Exchange Dry Index experienced a low of 772 points and a high of 4,661 points. Navios Holdings anticipates that the future demand for its drybulk carriers and drybulk charter rates will be dependent upon demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the emerging markets, including the Asia Pacific region, India, Brazil and Russia, and in the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. Recent adverse economic, political, social or other developments have decreased demand and prospects for growth in the shipping industry and thereby could reduce revenue significantly. A decline in demand for commodities transported in drybulk carriers or an increase in supply of drybulk vessels could cause a further decline in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we sell a vessel at a time when the market value of our vessels has fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount, resulting in a loss. The demand for vessels has generally been influenced by, among other factors: • global and regional economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, such as port congestion and canal closures; • weather and crop yields; • armed conflicts, acts of piracy and terrorist activities; • political developments; and • embargoes and strikes. The supply of vessel capacity has generally been influenced by, among other factors: • the number of vessels that are in or out of service; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • port and canal traffic and congestion; • the number of newbuilding deliveries; and • vessel casualties. The economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region has markedly reduced demand for shipping services and has decreased shipping rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, China, Japan, other Pacific Asian economies and India are the main driving force behind the development in seaborne drybulk trades and the demand for drybulk carriers. Reduced demand from such economies has driven decreased rates and vessel values. A further negative change in economic conditions in any Asian Pacific country, but particularly in China or Japan, as well as India, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, by reducing demand and the resultant charter rates. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Furthermore, the economic slowdown in the United States, the European Union, and other countries may deepen the economic slowdown in China, among others. While the introduction of a $586 billion economic stimulus package by the Chinese government was designed, in part, to increase consumer spending and reignite the steep growth China experienced before the recent downturn, it remains to be seen whether such a course of action by China will ultimately have the desired effect. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries as such downturn would likely translate into reduced demand for shipping services and lower shipping rates industry-wide. As a result, our operating results would be further materially affected. 8 Table of Contents Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing required to expand our business through the acquisition of vessels or new businesses. Furthermore, such a disruption would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and are currently in a recession. For example, the credit markets worldwide and in the U.S. have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government, state governments and foreign governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the U.S. and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. Due to the fact that we intend to cover all or a portion of the cost of vessel acquisition with debt financing, such uncertainty, combined with restrictions imposed by our current debt may hamper our ability to finance vessel or new business acquisition. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in certain securities markets, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the U.S. and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our existing credit facility or any future financial arrangements. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. When our charters contracts expire, we may not be able to successfully replace them. The process for concluding charters contracts and longer term time charters generally involves a lengthy and intensive screening and vetting process and the submission of competitive bids. In addition to the quality and suitability of the vessel, medium and longer term shipping contracts tend to be awarded based upon a variety of other factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • environmental, health and safety record; • compliance with regulatory industry standards; • reputation for customer service, technical and operating expertise; • shipping experience and quality of ship operations, including cost-effectiveness; • quality, experience and technical capability of crews; • the ability to finance vessels at competitive rates and overall financial stability; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to obtain suitable berths; • construction management experience, including the ability to procure on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. As a result of these factors, when our charters contracts expire, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully replace them promptly or at all or at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, to meet our obligations, including payment of debt service to our lenders, or to pay dividends. Our ability to renew the charter contracts on our vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, or, on vessels that we may acquire in the future, the charter rates payable under any replacement charter contracts, will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the sectors in which our vessels operate at that time and the financial sector, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the transportation of commodities as described above. However, if we are successful in employing our vessels under longer term time charters, our vessels will not be available for trading in the spot market during an upturn in the market cycle, when spot trading may be more profitable. If we cannot successfully employ our vessels in profitable charter contracts, our results of operations and operating cash flow could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We may employ vessels on the spot market and thus expose ourselves to risk of losses based on short-term decreases in shipping rates. We periodically employ our some of vessels on a spot basis. The spot charter market is highly competitive and freight rates within this market are highly volatile, while longer-term charter contracts provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping our vessels fully employed in these short term markets, or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable such vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot market rates or our inability to fully employ our vessels by taking advantage of the spot market would result in a reduction of the incremental revenue received from spot chartering and adversely affect results of operations, including our profitability and cash flows, with the result that our ability to pay debt service and dividends could be impaired. We are subject to certain credit risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and the failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses on such contracts and thereby decrease revenues. We charter-out our vessels to other parties, who pay us a daily rate of hire. We also enter into contracts of affreightment (“COAs”) pursuant to which we agree to carry cargoes, typically for industrial customers, who export or import drybulk cargoes. Additionally, we enter into FFAs, parts of which are traded over-the-counter. We also enter into spot market voyage contracts, where we are paid a rate per ton to carry a specified cargo on a specified route. The FFAs and these contracts and arrangements subject us to counterparty credit risks at various levels. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, we could suffer losses on such contracts which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, after a charterer defaults on a time charter, we would have to enter into charters at lower rates. It is also possible that we would be unable to secure a charter at all. If we re-charter the vessel at lower rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have insured our charter-out contracts through a “AA+” rated governmental agency of a European Union member state, which provides that if the charterer goes into payment default, the insurer will reimburse us for the charter payments under the terms of the policy for the remaining term of the charter-out contract (subject to applicable deductibles and other customary limitations for insurance). Trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs) subject us to trading risks, and we may suffer trading losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to drybulk shipping market volatility, success in this shipping industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering-out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. A long-term contract to charter a vessel might lock us into a profitable or unprofitable situation depending on the direction of freight rates over the term of the contract. We seek to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and forward freight agreements, or FFAs. We are exposed to market risk in relation to our FFAs and could suffer substantial losses from these activities in the event that our expectations are incorrect. We trade FFAs with an objective of both economically hedging the risk on the fleet, specific vessels or freight commitments and taking advantage of short-term fluctuations in market prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able at all times to successfully protect ourselves from volatility in the shipping market. We may not successfully mitigate our risks, leaving us exposed to unprofitable contracts, and may suffer trading losses resulting from these hedging activities. In our hedging and trading activities, we focus on short-term trading opportunities in which there are adequate liquidity in order to limit the risk we are taking. There can be no assurance we will be successful in limiting our risk, that significant price spikes will not result in significant losses, even on short term trades, that liquidity will be available for our positions, or that all trades will be done within our risk management policies. Any such risk could be significant. In addition, the performance of our trading activities can significantly increase the variability of our operating performance in any given period and could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The FFA market has experienced significant volatility in the past few years and, accordingly, recognition of the changes in the fair value of FFAs has caused, and could in the future cause significant volatility in earnings. We are subject to certain operating risks, including vessel breakdowns or accidents, that could result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels and which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our exposure to operating risks of vessel breakdown and accidents mainly arises in the context of our owned vessels. The rest of our core fleet is chartered-in under time charters and, as a result, most operating risks relating to these time chartered vessels remain with their owners. If we pay hire on a chartered-in vessel at a lower rate than the rate of hire it receives from a sub-charterer to whom we have chartered out the vessel, a breakdown or loss of the vessel due to an operating risk suffered by the owner will, in all likelihood, result in our loss of the positive spread between the two rates of hire. Although we maintain insurance policies (subject to deductibles and exclusions) to cover us against the loss of such spread through the sinking or other loss of a chartered-in vessel, we cannot assure you that we will be covered under all circumstances or that such policies will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Breakdowns or accidents involving our vessels and losses relating to chartered vessels which are not covered by insurance would result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various laws, regulations and conventions, including environmental laws that could require significant expenditures both to maintain compliance with such laws and to pay for any uninsured environmental liabilities resulting 10 Table of Contents from a spill or other environmental disaster. The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations, or the impact thereof on the fair market price or useful life of our vessels. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures. In order to satisfy any such requirements, we may be required to take any of our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels, particularly older vessels, profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business, require capital expenditures or otherwise increase our cost of doing business, which may materially adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. In various jurisdictions, legislation has been enacted or is under consideration that would impose more stringent requirements on air pollution and other ship emissions, including emissions of greenhouse gases and ballast water discharged from vessels. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business, require capital expenditures or otherwise increase our cost of doing business, which may materially adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. For example, in various jurisdictions legislation has been enacted, or is under consideration that would impose more stringent requirements on air pollution and other ship emissions, including emissions of greenhouse gases and ballast water discharged from vessels. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. The operation of vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management Code (“ISM”). The ISM Code requires ship owners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive safety management system that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe vessel operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Non-compliance with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. For example, the United States Coast Guard and European Union authorities have indicated that vessels not in compliance with the ISM Code will be prohibited from trading in ports in the United States and European Union. Currently, each of the vessels in our owned fleet is ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. For all vessels, including those operated under our fleet, international liability for oil pollution is currently governed by the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the “Bunker Convention”, adopted by the International Maritime Organization (“IMO”) in 2001. The Bunker Convention imposes strict liability on ship owners for pollution damage in jurisdictional waters of ratifying states caused by discharges of “bunker oil.” The Bunker Convention defines “bunker oil” as “any hydrocarbon mineral oil, including lubricating oil, used or intended to be used for the operation or propulsion of the ship, and any residues of such oil.” The Bunker Convention requires registered owners of ships over a certain size to maintain insurance for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims of 1976, as amended, referred to herein as the 1976 Convention). The Bunker Convention became effective on November 21, 2008, and by early 2010 it was in effect in 47 states. In other jurisdictions, liability for spills or releases of oil from ships’ bunkers continues to be determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the events or damages occur. Apart from the drybulk vessels in our fleet, our subsidiary Navios South American Logistics, Inc. (“Navios Logistics”), acquires and operates tankers, which in certain circumstances may be subject to national and international laws governing pollution from such vessels. When a tanker is carrying a cargo of “persistent oil’’ as defined by the Civil Liability Convention 1992 (CLC) her owner bears strict liability for any pollution damage caused in a contracting state by an escape or discharge from her cargo or from her bunker tanks. This liability is subject to a financial limit calculated by reference to the tonnage of the ship, and the right to limit liability may be lost if the spill is caused by the shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Liability may also be incurred under CLC for a bunker spill from the vessel even when she is not carrying such a cargo, but is in ballast. When a tanker is carrying clean oil products which do not constitute “persistent oil’’ for the purposes of CLC, liability for any pollution damage will generally fall outside the Bunker Convention and will depend on national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. The same applies to any pollution from the vessel in a jurisdiction which is not a party to the Bunker Convention. The Bunker Convention applies in over 100 states around the world, but it does not apply in the United States of America, where the corresponding liability laws are noted for being particularly stringent. Environmental legislation in the United States merits particular mention as it is in many respects more onerous than 11 Table of Contents international laws, representing a high-water mark of regulation with which ship owners and operators must comply, and of liability likely to be incurred in the event of non-compliance or an incident causing pollution. Additionally, pursuant to the federal laws, each state may enact more stringent regulations, thus subjecting ship owners to dual liability. Notably, California has adopted regulations that parallel most, if not all of the federal regulations explained below. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call. U.S. federal legislation, including notably the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills, including bunker oil spills from drybulk vessels as well as cargo or bunker oil spills from tankers. The OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under the OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or substantial threats of discharges, of oil from their vessels. In addition to potential liability under the OPA as the relevant federal legislation, vessel owners may in some instances incur liability on an even more stringent basis under state law in the particular state where the spillage occurred. Outside of the United States, other national laws generally provide for the owner to bear strict liability for pollution, subject to a right to limit liability under applicable national or international regimes for limitation of liability. The most widely applicable international regime limiting maritime pollution liability is the 1976 Convention referred to above. Rights to limit liability under the 1976 Convention are forfeited when a spill is caused by a shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Certain states have ratified the IMO’s 1996 Protocol to the 1976 Convention referred to herein as the 1996 LLMC Protocol. The 1996 LLMC Protocol provides for substantially higher the liability limits to apply in those jurisdictions than the limits set forth in the 1976 Convention. Finally, some jurisdictions are not a party to either the 1976 Convention or the 1996 LLMC Protocol, and, therefore, a shipowner’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. In some areas of regulation the EU has introduced new laws without attempting to procure a corresponding amendment of international law. Notably it adopted in 2005 a directive on ship-source pollution, imposing criminal sanctions for pollution not only where this is caused by intent or recklessness (which would be an offence under the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL), but also where it is caused by “serious negligence”. The directive could therefore result in criminal liability being incurred in circumstances where it would not be incurred under international law. Experience has shown that in the emotive atmosphere often associated with pollution incidents, retributive attitudes towards ship interests have found expression in negligence being alleged by prosecutors and found by courts on grounds which the international maritime community has found hard to understand. Moreover, there is skepticism that the notion of “serious negligence” is likely to prove any narrower in practice than ordinary negligence. Criminal liability for a pollution incident could not only result in us incurring substantial penalties or fines, but may also, in some jurisdictions, facilitate civil liability claims for greater compensation than would otherwise have been payable. We currently maintain, for each of our owned vessels, insurance coverage against pollution liability risks in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. The insured risks include penalties and fines as well as civil liabilities and expenses resulting from accidental pollution. However, this insurance coverage is subject to exclusions, deductibles and other terms and conditions. If any liabilities or expenses fall within an exclusion from coverage, or if damages from a catastrophic incident exceed the $1.0 billion limitation of coverage per incident, our cash flow, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures. For example, if governmental authorities or independent classification societies that inspect the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by national and international regulations enact new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations of the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirements, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels, particularly older vessels, profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. We are subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: 12 Table of Contents • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have a significant financial impact on us. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board, a valid International Ship Security Certificate, or ISSC, that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. We have implemented the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures for our vessels to attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption, could cause a decrease in charter revenues. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have increased recently in frequency and magnitude, which could adversely affect our business. The shipping industry has historically been affected by acts of piracy in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden. In 2008 and continuing through 2009, acts of piracy saw a steep rise, particularly off the coast of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden. One of the most significant examples of the increase in piracy came in November 2008 when the M/V Sirius Star, a crude oil tanker which was not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth approximately $100 million. In December 2009, the M/V Navios Apollon, a vessel owned by our affiliate, Navios Partners, was seized by pirates 800 miles off the coast of Somalia while transporting fertilizer from Tampa, Florida to Rozi, India. The Navios Apollon was released on February 27, 2010. As these piracy attacks result in regions (in which our vessels are deployed) being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business and operations. Our operations expose us to global political risks, such as wars and political instability that may interfere with the operation of our vessels and thereby cause a decrease in revenues from such vessels. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered will affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Persian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg, which was not affiliated with us, was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked in the Middle East region and interruption of operations causing a decrease in revenues. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations by causing delays in shipping on certain routes or making shipping impossible on such routes, thereby causing a decrease in revenues. A government could requisition title or seize our vessels during a war or national emergency. Requisition of title occurs when a government takes a vessel and becomes its owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire, which would result in the government taking control of a vessel and effectively becoming the charterer at a dictated charter rate. Requisition of one or more of our vessels would have a substantial negative effect on us as we would potentially lose all revenues and earnings from the requisitioned vessels and permanently lose the vessels. Such losses might be partially offset if the requisitioning government compensated us for the requisition. 13 Table of Contents A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in operating cash flows. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the United Nations Safety of Life at Sea Convention (“SOLAS”). Navios Holdings’ owned fleet is currently enrolled with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kiokai, Bureau Veritas and American Bureau of Shipping. A vessel must undergo an annual survey, or “Annual Survey”, an intermediate survey, or “Intermediate Survey” and a special survey, or “Special Survey”. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Navios Holdings’ vessels are on Special Survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey, or Special Survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on Navios Holdings’ revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until it was able to trade again. Vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our owned vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry docking facility. The costs of dry dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry docking costs that insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, could decrease our revenues and earnings substantially, particularly if a number of vessels are damaged or dry docked at the same time. Rising crew costs may adversely affect our profits. Crew costs are a significant expense for us under our charters. Recently, the limited supply of and increased demand for well-qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our period time and spot charters. Increases in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. The operation of ocean-going vessels in international trade is inherently risky. Although we carry insurance for our fleet covering risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators, such as hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which include environmental damage and pollution insurance), all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. We do not currently maintain off-hire insurance, which would cover the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled dry docking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available to us in the future may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which can result in significant increased overall costs to us. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also on the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also on the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, or the principal of, the senior notes. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages against such vessel. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. We are not currently aware of the existence 14 Table of Contents of any such maritime lien on our vessels. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another ship in the fleet. The risks and costs associated with vessels increase as the vessels age. The costs to operate and maintain a vessel in operation increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of the vessels in our fleet is 4.4 years, and most drybulk vessels have an expected life of approximately 25 years. In some instances, charterers prefer newer vessels that are more fuel efficient than older vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers as well. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of the vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we may have to sell them at a loss, and if charterers no longer charter out vessels due to their age, our earnings could be materially adversely affected. As we expand our business, we may have difficulty managing our growth, which could increase expenses. We have significantly grown our fleet and business since August 2005. We intend to continue to grow our fleet, either through purchases of additional vessels, through chartered-in vessels or through business acquisitions. The addition of vessels to our fleet or the acquisition of new businesses will impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Unrealized losses of “available for sale” securities may negatively affect our results of operations in the future. As part of the consideration received from the sale of the Navios Hope to Navios Maritime Partners L.P. (“Navios Partners”) in July 2008, the Company received 3,131,415 common units of Navios Partners (14.4% of the then outstanding units of Navios Partners), which are accounted for under guidance for available-for-sale securities (the “AFS Securities”). Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses on these securities are reflected directly in equity unless an unrealized loss is considered “other-than-temporary,” in which case it is transferred to the statement of income. The Company has no other types of available for sale securities. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying amounts of the AFS Securities were $46.3 million and $22.4 million, respectively, and the unrealized holding gains/(losses) related to these AFS Securities included in “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/ (Loss)” were $15.2 million and $(22.6 million), for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. On June 30, 2009, respectively, the Company recognized in earnings realized losses amounting to $13.8 million following the common unit’s market value being less than their acquisition price for a consecutive period of 12 months. Therefore, this decline was considered as other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”). Management evaluates securities for OTTI on a quarterly basis. Consideration is given to (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and (3) the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the investee for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. As of December 31, 2009, market valuation of these securities has increased. If the fair value of these AFS Securities declines below their June 30, 2009 value and our OTTI analysis indicates such write down to be necessary, the potential future impairment charges may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the period recognized. Any drought or significant decline in production of soybeans or other agricultural products in the Hidrovia region, including any possible effects of climate change, or any significant change affecting the navigability of certain rivers in the region, would have an adverse effect on our Navios Logistics business. 15 Table of Contents A significant portion of our Navios Logistics business is derived from transportation of soybeans and other agricultural products produced in the Hidrovia region. Any drought or other adverse weather conditions, such as floods, including any possible effects of climate change, could result in a decline in production of these products which would likely result in a reduction in demand for our services. This would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Further, most of the operations in our Navios Logistics business occur on the Parana and Paraguay Rivers, and any changes adversely affecting navigability of either of these rivers, such as changes in the depth of the water or the width of the navigable channel, could, in the short term, reduce or limit our ability to effectively transport cargo on the rivers. A prolonged drought or other turn of events that is perceived by the market to have an impact on the region, including any possible effects of climate change, the navigability of the Parana or Paraguay Rivers or our Navios Logistics business in general may, in the short term, result in a reduction in the market value of the barges and push boats that we operate in the region. These barges and push boats are designed to operate in wide and relatively calm rivers, of which there are only a few in the world. If it becomes difficult or impossible to operate profitably our barges and push boats in the Hidrovia region and we are forced to sell them to a third party located outside of the region, there is a limited market in which we would be able to sell these vessels, and accordingly we may be forced to sell them at a substantial loss. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith or that our acquisitions will perform as expected, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The operation of our ocean-going vessels and Navios Logistics’ fleet entails the possibility of marine disasters including damage or destruction of the vessel due to accident, the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism, damage or destruction of cargo and similar events that may cause a loss of revenue from affected vessels and could damage our business reputation, which may in turn lead to loss of business. The operation of our ocean-going vessels and Navios Logistics’ fleet entails certain inherent risks that may adversely affect our business and reputation, including: • damage or destruction of a vessel due to marine disaster such as a collision; • the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism; • cargo and property losses or damage as a result of the foregoing or less drastic causes such as human error, mechanical failure and bad weather; • environmental accidents as a result of the foregoing; and • business interruptions and delivery delays caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, acts of piracy, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could substantially increase our costs. For example, the costs of replacing a vessel or cleaning up a spill could substantially lower its revenues by taking vessels out of operation permanently or for periods of time. The involvement of our vessels in a disaster or delays in delivery or damages or loss of cargo may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and could cause us to lose business. Accidents or operational disruptions in connection with loading, discharging or transiting the rivers in our Navios Logistics business could adversely affect our operations and revenues. Our Navios Logistics business is dependent, in part, upon being able to timely and effectively transit the rivers and load and discharge cargoes. Any accidents or operational disruptions to ports, terminals, bridges or the lock on the high Parana River could adversely affect our operations and our revenues in our Navios Logistics business. Although we have longstanding relationships with certain Japanese ship owners who provide us access to very competitive contracts, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to maintain such relationships or that such contracts will continue to be available in the future. We have longstanding relationships with certain Japanese ship owners that give us access to time charters that are currently at favorable rates and which, in some cases, include options to purchase the vessels at favorable prices relative to the current market. We cannot assure you that we will have such relationships indefinitely. In addition, there is no assurance that Japanese ship owners will generally make contracts available on the same or substantially similar terms in the future. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer holds approximately 23% of our common stock and will be able to exert considerable influence over our actions; her failure to own a significant amount of our common stock or to be our Chief 16 Table of Contents Executive Officer would constitute a default under our secured credit facilities. Ms. Angeliki Frangou owns approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and has filed a Schedule 13D indicating that she intends, subject to market conditions, to purchase $20 million of our common stock (as of December 31, 2009, she has purchased approximately $10 million in value of our common stock). As the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a significant stockholder, she has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of Ms. Frangou may be different from your interests. Furthermore, if Ms. Frangou ceases to hold a minimum of 20% of our common stock does not remain actively involved in the business or ceases to be our Chief Executive Officer, then we will be in default under our secured credit facilities. The loss of key members of our senior management team could disrupt the management of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team, including Ms. Angeliki Frangou, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder. The loss of the services of Ms. Frangou or one of our other executive officers or senior management members could impair our ability to identify and secure new charter contracts, to maintain good customer relations and to otherwise manage our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to compete. Certain of our directors, officers, and principal stockholders are affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us which may compete directly with us, causing such persons to have conflicts of interest. Some of our directors, officers and principal stockholders have affiliations with entities that have similar business activities to those conducted by us. Certain of our directors are also directors of other shipping companies and they may enter similar businesses in the future. These other affiliations and business activities may give rise to certain conflicts of interest in the course of such individuals’ affiliation with us. Although we do not prevent our directors, officers and principal stockholders from having such affiliations, we use our best efforts to cause such individuals to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addressing such conflicts of interest. Our officers and employee directors devote their full time and attention to our ongoing operations, and our non-employee directors devote such time as is necessary and required to satisfy their duties as directors of a public company. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could cause us to suffer exchange rate losses, thereby increasing expenses and reducing income. We engage in worldwide commerce with a variety of entities. Although our operations may expose us to certain levels of foreign currency risk, our transactions are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated at the present. Additionally, our South American subsidiaries transact a nominal amount of their operations in Uruguayan pesos, Paraguayan Guaranies, Argentinean pesos and Brazilian Reales, whereas our wholly-owned vessel subsidiaries and the vessel management subsidiary transact a nominal amount of their operations in Euros; however, all of the subsidiaries’ primary cash flows are U.S. dollar-denominated. In 2009, approximately 6.9% of our expenses were incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the date of each transaction. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value can increase, thereby decreasing our income. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2009, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased by approximately 2.7% as compared to the Euro. A greater percentage of our transactions and expenses in the future may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. As part of our overall risk management policy, we attempt to hedge these risks in exchange rate fluctuations from time to time. We may not always be successful in such hedging activities and, as a result, our operating results could suffer as a result of non-hedged losses incurred as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Risks Relating to Our Debt We have substantial debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and make payments under the notes. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1,622.7 million in aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding of which $1,271.9 was secured. We also have up to $101.0 million available to us to be used for general corporate purposes under our existing and new credit facilities. We may increase the amount of our indebtedness in the future which would further exacerbate the risks listed below. 17 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could have important consequences to holders of our common stock. Because of our substantial debt: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, vessel or other acquisitions or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • we will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be at variable rates of interest; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and, as a result, we may not be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital expenditures that are necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future as the terms of the indenture governing our 9.5% senior notes due 2014, or the “senior notes” and the terms of the new indenture governing our 8.875% first priority ship mortgage notes due 2017, or the “ship mortgage notes”, do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations, including the repayment of the senior notes. The agreements and instruments governing our debt will contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. Our secured credit facilities and our indenture impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • make new investments; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; • pay dividends or redeem capital stock; • make capital expenditures; • engage in certain FFA trading activities; • change the flag, class or commercial and technical management of our vessels; • enter into long term charter arrangements without the consent of the lender; and • sell any of our vessels. Therefore, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests or those of our holders of common stock, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our 18 Table of Contents lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our or our stockholders best interests. Any future credit agreements may include similar or more restrictive restrictions. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal and otherwise service our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depend on multiple factors, many of which may be beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our obligations under our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. We will use cash to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, vessel acquisitions and other purposes. As a result of these obligations, our current liabilities may exceed our current assets. We may need to take on additional debt as we expand our fleet, which could increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes, and our inability to service debt in the future could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our owned vessels. We may be unable to raise funds necessary to finance the change of control repurchase offer required by the indenture governing our outstanding notes and our secured credit facilities. The indenture governing the senior notes, the ship mortgage notes and our secured credit facilities contain certain change of control provisions. If we experience specified changes of control under the senior notes, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all of our outstanding notes (unless otherwise redeemed) at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. The occurrence of specified events that would constitute a change of control will constitute a default under our secured credit facilities. In the event of a change of control, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to satisfy all of our obligations under our secured credit facilities and the senior notes, including but not limited to repaying all indebtedness outstanding under our secured credit facilities or repurchasing the senior notes. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. The debt under our secured credit facilities bears interest at variable rates. We may also incur indebtedness in the future with variable interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. Such provisions could significantly increase our lending costs, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. The market values of our vessels, which have declined from historically high levels, may fluctuate significantly, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facilities and result in the foreclosure of our mortgaged vessels. Factors that influence vessel values include: • number of newbuilding deliveries; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • changes in global drybulk commodity supply; • types and sizes of vessels; • development of and increase in use of other modes of transportation; • cost of vessel acquisitions; • cost of newbuilding vessels; • governmental or other regulations; • prevailing level of charter rates; and • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry. If the market values of our owned vessels decrease, we may breach covenants contained in our secured credit facilities. If we breach such covenants and are unable to remedy any relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on the collateral, including our vessels. Any loss of vessels would significantly decrease our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations and, therefore, service our debt. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions, or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss. 19 Table of Contents We may require additional financing to acquire vessels or business or to exercise vessel purchase options, and such financing may not be available. In the future, we may be required to make substantial cash outlays to exercise options or to acquire vessels or business and will need additional financing to cover all or a portion of the purchase prices. We intend to cover the cost of such items with new debt collateralized by the vessels to be acquired, if applicable, but there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash or that debt financing will be available. Moreover, the covenants in our senior secured credit facility, the indenture or other debt, may make it more difficult to obtain such financing by imposing restrictions on what we can offer as collateral. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA are intended to resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Stockholder rights may differ as well. The BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions. Accordingly, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling stockholders than you would in the case of a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware or other U.S. jurisdictions. We, and certain of our officers and directors, may be difficult to serve with process as we are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and such persons may reside outside of the United States. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Several of our directors and officers are residents of Greece or other non-U.S. jurisdictions. Substantial portions of the assets of these persons are located in Greece or other non-U.S. jurisdictions. Thus, it may not be possible for investors to affect service of process upon us, or our non-U.S. directors or officers, or to enforce any judgment obtained against these persons in U.S. courts. Also, it may not be possible to enforce U.S. securities laws or judgments obtained in U.S. courts against these persons in a non-U.S. jurisdiction. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. We may earn United States source income that is subject to tax, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of gross income attributable to shipping transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income. Such income generally will be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless we qualify for an exemption from such tax under section 883 of the Code. Based on our current plans, we expect that our income from sources within the United States will be international shipping income that qualifies for exemption from United States federal income taxation under section 883 of the Code, and that we will have no other income that will be taxed in the United States. Our ability to qualify for the exemption at any given time will depend upon circumstances related to the ownership of our common stock at such time and thus are beyond our control. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that we would qualify for the exemption under Section 883 with respect to any such income we earn. If Navios Holdings’ vessel-owning subsidiaries were not entitled to the benefit of section 883 of the Code, they would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of their income. As a result, depending on the trading patterns of our vessels, we could become liable for tax, and our net income and cash flow could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may be taxed as a United States corporation. The purchase by International Shipping Enterprises Inc. (“ISE”), our predecessor, of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Navios Holdings, and the subsequent downstream merger of ISE with and into Navios Holdings took place on August 25, 2005. Navios Holdings is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. ISE received an opinion from its counsel for the merger transaction that, while there is no direct authority that governs the tax treatment of the transaction, it was more likely than not that Navios Holdings would be taxed by the United States as a foreign corporation. Accordingly, we take the position that we will be taxed as a foreign corporation by the United States. If Navios Holdings is taxed as a U.S. corporation in the future, its taxes will be significantly higher than they are currently. 