D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. You should carefully consider each of the following risks together with the other 5 Table of Contents information incorporated into this Annual Report when evaluating the Company’s business and its prospect. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently considers immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of the following risks relating to our business and operations actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Debt We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and make payments on the notes. As of December 31, 2007, we had $614.0 million in aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding. We may also increase the amount of our indebtedness in the future. We also have $120.0 million of credit available to us under our existing secured credit facility. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to holders of our common stock. Because of our substantial debt: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, vessel or other acquisitions or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; • we will be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility will be at variable rates of interest; • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, we may not be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • our ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase; and • our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital expenditures that are necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins or our business. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future as the terms of the indenture governing our 9.5% senior notes due 2014, or the senior notes, do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. As of December 31, 2007, we had $614.0 million in aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, of which $315.9 million was secured. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations, including the repayment of the notes. 6 Table of Contents The agreements and instruments governing our debt will contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. Our secured credit facilities and our indenture impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • make investments; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; • pay dividends or redeem capital stock; • make capital expenditures; • engage in certain FFA trading activities; • change the management of our vessels or terminate the management agreements we have, relating to each vessel; • enter into long-term charter arrangements without the consent of the lender; and • sell any of our vessels. Therefore, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests or those of our holders of common stock, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our or our stockholders best interests. Any future credit agreements may include similar or more restrictive restrictions. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal and otherwise service our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on multiple factors mainly of which may be beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control. We will use cash to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, vessel acquisitions and other purposes. As a result of these obligations, our current liabilities may exceed our current assets. We may need to take on additional debt as we expand our fleet, which could increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes and our inability to service debt in the future could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our owned vessels. We may be unable to raise funds necessary to finance the change of control repurchase offer required by the indenture governing our outstanding notes and our secured credit facilities. The indenture governing our senior notes and our secured credit facilities contain certain change of control provisions. If we experience specified changes of control under our senior notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase all of our outstanding notes (unless otherwise redeemed) at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. The occurrence of specified events that would constitute a change of control will constitute a default under our secured credit facilities. In the event of a change of control, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to satisfy all of our obligations under our secured 7 Table of Contents credit facilities and the senior notes, including but not limited, to repay all indebtedness outstanding under our secured credit facilities or to repurchase the senior notes. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. Our debt under our secured credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. We may also incur indebtedness in the future with variable interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. The market values of our vessels, which are at historically high levels, may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facilities and result in the foreclosure on our mortgaged vessels. Factors that influence vessel values include: • number of newbuilding deliveries; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • changes in global dry bulk commodity supply; • types and sizes of vessels; • development of and increase in use of other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuilding vessel; • governmental or other regulations; and • prevailing level of charter rates. If the market values of our owned vessels decrease, we may breach covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness, including the minimum net worth, solvency and current ratio covenants in our secured credit facilities. If we breach such covenants and are unable to remedy any relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on the collateral, including our vessels. Any loss of vessels would significantly decrease our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations and therefore service our debt. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions, or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss. We may require additional financing to acquire vessels or business or to exercise vessel purchase options and such financing may not be available. In the future, we may be required to make substantial cash outlays to exercise options to acquire vessels or business and it will need additional financing to cover all or a portion of the purchase prices. We intend to cover the cost of such items with new debt collateralized by the vessels to be acquired, if applicable, but there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash or that debt financing will be available. Moreover, the covenants in our senior secured credit facility, the indenture or other debt may make it more difficult to obtain such financing by imposing restrictions on what we can offer as collateral. 8 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Shipping Industry and Our Operations The cyclical nature of the international drybulk shipping industry may lead to decreases in charter rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The shipping business, including the dry cargo market, is cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing severe fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. At various times from 2004 to date, charter rates for the international drybulk shipping industry reached historic highs but may not be as high in the future. For example during the period from January 4, 2005 to December 31, 2007, the Baltic Exchange’s Panamax time charter average rates experienced a low of $10,162 and a high of $94,977. Navios Holdings anticipates that the future demand for its drybulk carriers and drybulk charter rates will be dependent upon continued demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the emerging markets, including the Asia Pacific region, India, Brazil and Russia and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase, and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could decrease demand and growth in the shipping industry and thereby reduce revenue significantly. A decline in demand for commodities transported in drybulk carriers or an increase in supply of drybulk vessels could cause a significant decline in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The demand for vessels, in general, has been influenced by, among other factors: • global and regional economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, such as port congestion and canal closures; • weather and crop yields; • armed conflicts and terrorist activities; • political developments; and • embargoes and strikes. In addition, when our time charters expire we may not be able to replace them promptly or with profitable charters or at all. Failure to obtain replacement charters could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could reduce demand for shipping services and decrease shipping rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, China, Japan, other Pacific Asian economies and India are the main driving force behind the increase in seaborne dry bulk trades and the demand for drybulk carriers. Demand from such economies has driven increased rates and vessel values. Conversely, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asian Pacific country, but particularly in China or Japan, as well as India, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, by reducing demand and the resultant charter rates. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience a material decline from current levels in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be adversely affecte d by an economic downturn in any of these countries as such downturn would likely translate into reduced demand for shipping services and lower shipping rates industry wide. As a result, our operating results would be materially affected. We may employ vessels on the spot market and thus expose ourselves to risk of losses based on short-term decreases in shipping rates. We periodically employ our vessels on a spot basis. The spot charter market is highly competitive and freight rates within this market are highly volatile, while longer-term time charters provide income 9 Table of Contents at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets, or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable such vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot market charter rates or our inability to fully employ our vessels by taking advantage of the spot market would result in a reduction of the incremental revenue received from spot chartering and adversely affect results of operations, including our profitability and cash flows, with the result that our ability to pay debt service and dividends could be impaired. Trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs) subject us to trading risks and we may suffer trading losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to drybulk shipping market volatility, success in this shipping industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering-out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. A long-term contract to charter a vessel might lock us into a profitable or unprofitable situation depending on the direction of freight rates over the term of the contract. We seek to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and forward freight agreements, or FFAs. We are exposed to market risk in relation to our FFAs and could suffer substantial losses from these activities in the event that our expectations are incorrect. We trade FFAs with an objective of both economically hedging the risk on the fleet, specific vessels or freight commitments and taking advantage of short term fluctuations in market prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able at all times to successfully protect ourselves from volatility in the shipping market. We may not successfully mitigate our risks, leaving us exposed to unprofitable contracts and may suffer trading losses resulting from these hedging activities. In our hedging and trading activities, we focus on short-term trading opportunities where there is adequate liquidity in order to seek to limit the risk we are taking. There can be no assurance we will be successful in limiting our risk, that significant price spikes will not result in significant losses, even on short-term trades, that liquidity will be available for our positions, or that all trades will be done within our risk management policies. Any such risk could be significant. In addition, the performance of our trading activities can significantly increase the variability of our operating performance in any given period and could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The FFA market has experienced significant volatility in the past few years and, accordingly, recognition of the changes in the fair value of FFAs has, and can, cause significant volatility in earnings. We are subject to certain credit risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses on such contracts decreasing revenues. We charter-out our vessels to other parties, who pay us a daily rate of hire. We also enter into Contracts of Affreightment (COAs) pursuant to which we agree to carry cargoes, typically for industrial customers, who export or import dry bulk cargoes. Additionally, we enter into FFAs, part of which are traded over the counter. We also enter into spot market voyage contracts, where we are paid a rate per ton to carry a specified cargo on a specified route. The FFAs and these contracts and arrangements subject us to counterparty credit risks at various levels. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, we could suffer losses on such contracts which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, after a charterer defaults on a time charter, we would have to enter into charters at lower rates. It is also possible that we would be unable to secure a charter at all. If we re-charter the vessel at lower rates , our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. On November 30, 2006, we received notification that one of our FFA trading counterparties filed for bankruptcy in Canada. Our exposure to such counterparty as of December 31, 2006, was approximately $7.7 million. While the recovery we may obtain in any liquidation proceeding can not be presently estimated, based on management’s current expectations and assumptions we have provided for $5.4 million in our 2006 financial statements and no additional provision in our 2007 financial statements. However, we do not believe this will have a material impact on our liquidity, or on our ability to make payments for principal and interest or otherwise service our debt. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to certain operating risks, including vessel breakdowns or accidents that could result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our exposure to operating risks of vessel breakdown and accidents mainly arises in the context of our owned vessels. The rest of our core fleet is chartered-in under time charters and, as a result, most operating risks relating to these time chartered vessels remain with their owners. If we pay hire on a chartered-in vessel at a lower rate than the rate of hire it receives from a sub-charterer to whom we have chartered out the vessel, a breakdown or loss of the vessel due to an operating risk suffered by the owner will, in all likelihood, result in our loss of the positive spread between the two rates of hire. Although we maintain insurance policies (subject to deductibles and exclusions) to cover us against the loss of such spread through the sinking or other loss of a chartered-in vessel, we cannot assure you that we will be covered under all circumstances or that such policies will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Breakdowns or acc idents involving our vessels and losses relating to chartered vessels which are not covered by insurance would result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have longstanding relationships with certain Japanese ship owners who provide us access to very competitive contracts, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to maintain such relationships or that such contracts will continue to be available in the future. We have long-standing relationships with certain Japanese ship owners that give us access to time charters that are currently at favorable rates and which, in some cases, include options to purchase the vessels at favorable prices relative to the current market. We cannot assure you that we will have such relationships indefinitely. In addition, there is no assurance that Japanese ship owners will generally make contracts available on the same or substantially similar terms in the future. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer holds approximately 22% of our common stock and will be able to exert considerable influence over our actions; her failure to own a significant amount of our common stock or to be our Chief Executive Officer would constitute a default under our secured credit facilities. Ms. Angeliki Frangou owns approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and has filed a Schedule 13D indicating that she intends, subject to market conditions, to purchase $20 million of common stock (as of December 31, 2007, she has purchased approximately $10 million in value of common stock). As the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and significant stockholder she has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of Ms. Frangou may be different from your interest. Furthermore, if Ms. Frangou ceases to hold a minimum of 20% of our common stock, does not remain actively involved in the business or ceases to be our Chief Executive Officer then we will be in default under our secured credit facilities. The loss of key members of our senior management team could disrupt the management of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team, including Ms. Angeliki Frangou, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder. The loss of the services of Ms. Frangou or one of our other executive officers or senior management members could impair our ability to identify and secure new charter contracts, to maintain good customer relations and to otherwise manage our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and our ability to compete. Certain of our directors, officers, and principal stockholders are affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by us which may compete directly with us causing such persons to have conflicts of interest. Some of our directors, officers and principal stockholders have an affiliation with entities that have similar business activities to those conducted by us. Certain of our directors are also directors of 11 Table of Contents other shipping companies and they may enter similar business in the future. These other affiliations and business activities may give rise to certain conflicts of interest in the course of such individuals’ affiliation with us. Although we do not prevent our directors, officers and principal stockholders from having such affiliations, we use our best efforts to cause such individuals to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addressing such conflicts of interest. Our officers and employee directors devote their full time and attention to our ongoing operations and our non-employee directors devote such time as is necessary and required to satisfy their duties as a director of a public company. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in operating cash flows. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the United Nations Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Navios Holdings’ owned fleet is currently enrolled with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kiokai, Korean Register of Shipping and Bureau Veritas. A vessel must undergo an annual survey, or Annual Survey, an intermediate survey, or Intermediate Survey and a special survey, or Special Survey. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Navios Holdings’ vessels are on Special Survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey, or Special Survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on Navios Holdings’ revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until it was able to trade again. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures. For example, if governmental authorities or independent classification societies that inspect the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by national and international regulations enact new standards; we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations of the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirements we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably, particularly older vessels, during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. The risks and costs associated with vessels increase as the vessels age. The costs to operate and maintain a vessel in operation increase with the age of the vessel. The average age of the vessels in our fleet is 4.3 years, and most drybulk vessels have an expected life of approximately 25 years. In some instances charterers prefer newer vessels that are more fuel efficient than older vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers as well. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of the vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we 12 Table of Contents may have to sell them at a loss, and if charterers no longer charter out vessels due to their age, it could materially adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to various laws, regulations and conventions, including environmental laws that could require significant expenditures both to maintain compliance with such laws and to pay for any uninsured environmental liabilities resulting from a spill or other environmental disaster. The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state, and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws, and regulations, or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws, and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase our cost of doing business, which may materially adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. For example, various jurisdictions are considering legislation imposing more stringent requirements on air emissions, including emissions of greenhouse gases, and ballast water discharges from ves sels. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, and certificates with respect to our operations. The operation of vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive ‘‘Safety Management System’’ that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe vessel operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of the vessels in our owned fleet is ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. For drybulk vessels, such as those operated under our fleet, international liability for oil pollution is governed by the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention. In 2001, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, adopted the Bunker Convention, which imposes strict liability on shipowners for pollution damage in contracting states caused by discharges of bunker oil from drybulk vessels. The Bunker Convention also requires registered owners of ships over a certain size to maintain insurance to cover their liability for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims 1976, as amended, or the 1976 Convention). The Bunker Convention will become effective November 21, 2008. In the meantime, liability for such bunker oil pollution typically is determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. In the United States, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills, including bunker oil spills from drybulk vessels as well as cargo or bunker oil spills from tankers. The OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under the OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are ‘‘responsible parties’’ and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or substantial threats of discharges, of oil from their vessel s. In addition to potential liability under OPA as the relevant federal legislation, vessel owners may in some instances incur liability on an even more stringent basis under state law in the particular state where the spillage occurred. Outside of the United States, other national laws generally provide for the owner to bear strict liability for pollution, subject to a right to limit liability under applicable national or international 13 Table of Contents regimes for limitation of liability. The most widely applicable international regime limiting maritime pollution liability is the 1976 Convention. Rights to limit liability under the 1976 Convention are forfeited where a spill is caused by a shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Certain jurisdictions have ratified the IMO’s Protocol of 1996, which substantially increases the liability limits set forth in the 1976 London Convention. Finally, some jurisdictions are not a party to either the 1976 Convention or the Protocol of 1996, and, therefore, a shipowner’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. In 2005, the European Union adopted a directive on ship-source pollution, imposing criminal sanctions for intentional, reckless or seriously negligent pollution discharges by ships. The directive could result in criminal liability being incurred in circumstances where it would not be incurred under international law as set out in the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or the MARPOL Convention. Criminal liability for an oil pollution incident could not only result in us incurring substantial penalties or fines but may also, in some jurisdictions, facilitate civil liability claims for greater compensation than would otherwise have been payable. We currently maintain, for each of our owned vessels, insurance coverage against pollution liability risks in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. The insured risks include penalties and fines as well as civil liabilities and expenses resulting from accidental pollution. However, this insurance coverage is subject to exclusions, deductibles and other terms and conditions. If any liabilities or expenses fall with an exclusion from coverage, or if damages from a catastrophic incident exceed the $1.0 billion limitation of coverage per incident, our cash flow, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted. We are subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid International Ship Security Certificate (ISSC) that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. We will implement the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures for our vessels to attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in charter revenues. Furthermore, additional security meas ures could be required in the future which could have significant financial impact on us. 14 Table of Contents The operation of ocean-going vessels entails the possibility of marine disasters including damage or destruction of the vessel due to accident, the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism, damage or destruction of cargo and similar events that may cause a loss of revenue from affected vessels and damage our business reputation, which may in turn lead to loss of business. The operation of ocean-going vessels entails certain inherent risks that may adversely affect our business and reputation, including: • damage or destruction of vessel due to marine disaster such as a collision; • the loss of a vessel due to piracy and terrorism; • cargo and property losses or damage as a result of the foregoing or less drastic causes such as human error, mechanical failure and bad weather; • environmental accidents as a result of the foregoing; and • business interruptions and delivery delays caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could substantially increase our costs. For example, the costs of replacing a vessel or cleaning up a spill could substantially lower its revenues by taking vessels out of operation permanently or for periods of time. The involvement of our vessels in a disaster or delays in delivery or damages or loss of cargo may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and cause us to lose business. As we expand our business, we may have difficulty managing our growth, which could increase expenses. We have significantly grown our fleet and business since August 2005. We intend to continue to seek to grow our fleet, either through purchases, the increase of the number of chartered vessels or through the acquisitions of business. The addition of vessels to our fleet or the acquisition of new business will impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing our expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith or that our acquisitions will perform as expected, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems, staff, and crew; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, we may not effectively control our operations. Our initial operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand, and our attempts to improve these systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our operations, we may be unable to effectively control and manage the substantially larger operation. 15 Table of Contents Although it is impossible to predict what errors might occur as the result of inadequate controls, it is the case that it is harder to oversee a sizable operation than a small one and, accordingly, more likely that errors will occur as operations grow and that additional management infrastructure and systems will be required to attempt to avoid such errors. Vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our owned vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, could decrease our revenues and earnings substantially, particularly if a number of vessels are damaged or drydocked at the same time. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We have insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators, including hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which include environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which in increased overall costs to us. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, or the principal of, the senior notes. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could cause us to suffer exchange rate losses thereby increasing expenses and reducing income. We engage in worldwide commerce with a variety of entities. Although, our operations may expose us to certain levels of foreign currency risk, our transactions are at present predominantly U.S. dollar denominated. Additionally, our wholly-owned Uruguayan subsidiary transacts a nominal amount of its operations in Uruguayan pesos, whereas our wholly-owned vessel subsidiaries and the vessel management subsidiary transact a nominal amount of their operations in Euros; however, all of the subsidiaries’ primary cash flows are U.S. dollar denominated. In 2007 approximately 4.0% of our expenses were incurred in currencies other than US dollars. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the date of each transaction. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our income. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, the va lue of the US dollar declined by approximately 9.6% as compared to the Euro. A greater percentage of our transactions and expenses in the future may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. As part of our overall risk management policy, we attempt to hedge these risks in exchange rate fluctuations from time to time. We may not always be successful in such hedging activities and, as a result, our operating results could suffer as a result of un-hedged losses incurred as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. 16 Table of Contents Our operations expose us to global political risks, such as wars and political instability that may interfere with the operation of our vessels causing a decrease in revenues from such vessels. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered will affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Persian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg, which was not affiliated with us, was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked in the Middle East region and interruption of operations causing a decrease in revenues. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations by causing delays in shipping on certain routes or making shipping impossible on such routes, thereby causing a decrease in revenues. A government could requisition title or seize our vessels during a war or national emergency. Requisition of title occurs when a government takes a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire, which would result in the government’s taking control of a vessel and effectively becoming the charterer at a dictated charter rate. Requisition of one or more of our vessels would have a substantial negative effect on us as we would potentially lose all revenues and earnings from the requisitioned vessels and permanently lose the vessels. Such losses might be partially offset if the requisitioning government compensated us for the requisition. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages against such vessel. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. We are not currently aware of the existence of any such maritime lien on our vessels. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any ‘‘associated’’ vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert ‘‘sister ship’’ liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another ship in the fleet. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA are intended to resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. The BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions. Accordingly, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling stockholders than you would in the case of a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware or other U.S. jurisdictions. 17 Table of Contents We, and certain of our officers and directors, may be difficult to serve with process as we are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and such persons may reside outside of the United States. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Several of our directors and officers are residents of Greece or other non-US jurisdictions. Substantial portions of the assets of these persons are located in Greece or other non-U.S. jurisdictions. Thus, it may not be possible for investors to affect service of process upon us, or our non-US directors or officers or to enforce any judgment obtained against these persons in U.S. courts. Also, it may not be possible to enforce U.S. securities laws or judgments obtained in U.S. courts against these persons in a non-US jurisdiction. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any ‘‘short-swing’’ trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. We may earn United States source income that is subject to tax, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of gross income attributable to shipping transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income. Such income generally will be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless we qualify for an exemption from such tax under section 883 of the Code. Based on our current plans, we expect that our income from sources within the United States will be international shipping income that qualifies for exemption from United States federal income taxation under section 883 of the Code, and that we will have no other income that will be taxed in the United States. Our ability to qualify for the exemption at any given time will depend upon circumstances related to the ownership of our common stock at such time and thus are beyond our control. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that we would qualify for the exemption under Section 883 with respect to any such income we earn. If Navios Holdings’ vessel-owning subsidiaries were not entitled to the benefit of section 883 of the Code, they would be subject to United States taxation on a portion of their income. As a result, depending on the trading patterns of our vessels, we could become liable for tax, and our net income and cash flow could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We may be taxed as a United States corporation. The purchase by International Shipping Enterprises Inc., our predecessor (‘‘ISE’’), of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Navios Holdings, and the subsequent downstream merger of ISE with and into Navios Holdings took place on August 25, 2005. Navios Holdings is incorporated under the laws of the Marshall Islands. ISE received an opinion from its counsel for the merger transaction that, while there is no direct authority that governs the tax treatment of the transaction, it was more likely than not that Navios Holdings would be taxed by the United States as a foreign corporation. Accordingly, we take the position that we will be taxed as a foreign corporation by the United States. If Navios Holdings was taxed as a U.S. corporation, its taxes would be significantly higher. 19 Table of Contents 