ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report and in any documents incorporated in this Report by reference. Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenue and may need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenue. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenue. Currently, our primary product candidates are droxidopa and our antifolates portfolio, and none are approved by the FDA nor, with the exception of droxidopa which has Japanese approval, any other regulatory agency for sale. Therefore, until we are able to successfully and profitably commercialize our drugs, we will have to fund all of our operations and development expenditures from cash on hand, equity or debt financings, licensing fees and grants. Operating expenses for 2011 totaled approximately $50.6 million, including non-cash items, and we anticipate that 2012 operating expenses will increase further with our significant spending related to marketing and commercialization activities for the planned launch of Northera in the United States. Should we be unable to commercialize Northera in 2012, we will continue to have significant ongoing costs in other areas of the business and, given our initial spending and cost commitments for commercialization activities, would anticipate substantial expenses early in 2012 as we wind down such commercialization activities. In order to fund operations and increase our cash reserves, we may seek to out-license our products or seek additional sources of financing and such opportunities might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might not be able to complete planned preclinical and clinical trials, obtain approval of any product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities, or successfully complete the commercialization of our drug products. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts, forego attractive business opportunities or curtail operations. Any additional sources of financing could involve the issuance of our equity securities, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. While we are hopeful that we will be able to commence marketing Northera in 2012, we may not receive FDA approval of our NDA or such approval might be delayed. If approval is not received, we will have no product revenue and, if delayed, product revenue will not adequately contribute to the funding of operating expenses. We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we might never achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in commercializing Northera, we might not become profitable and could continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. From inception through December 31, 2011 we had losses of $183.3 million. We had net losses of $50.5 million, $37.3 million and $25.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Actual losses will depend on a number of considerations, including: • the pace and success, if any, of commercialization and marketing efforts for Northera in the U.S.; • the pace and success of preclinical development and clinical trials for droxidopa, antifolates and other product candidates; • possible out-licensing of our product candidates; • regulatory review and approval for our various product candidates, particularly our NDA for Northera which is being reviewed by the FDA; 22 Table of Contents • discussions with regulatory agencies concerning the design of our clinical trials and/or the adequacy of prior trials and pre-clinical studies for regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • requirements for post-approval trials and safety monitoring programs, particularly for Northera; • our ability to identify and recruit patients into our clinical trials at costs consistent with our current estimates; • the pace of development of new intellectual property for our existing product candidates; • in-licensing and development of additional product candidates; • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hiring additional personnel. To fund our ongoing development activities, we will need to generate significant revenue in order to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if Northera is approved for marketing in the U.S., we might not be able to generate revenue or achieve profitability in the future and are unlikely to do so in the near term. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our securities. We are a development-stage company and might not be able to commercialize any product candidates. We are a development-stage company and have not demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; • conducting sales, marketing and distribution activities; and • adding administrative and operational infrastructure, as required, to remain compliant with regulations governing pharmaceutical sales and marketing programs. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, negotiating in-licensing agreements with our partners, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, participating in regulatory discussions with the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies, undertaking preclinical trials and clinical trials of our product candidates, and, more recently, preparing for the planned commercial launch in the United States of Northera in anticipation of regulatory approval. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. Our potential future earnings may be reduced should we decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates. We may decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates, reducing future profits available to us. Should we license our drug product candidates to another pharmaceuticals company, it would allow the partner to market and sell our compounds in one or more markets around the world. If either the antifolates or droxidopa are licensed to a strategic partner, the profit available to us may be substantially reduced from what might otherwise be possible should we retain all rights to the products and market and sell them directly. We might not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize any product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates including Northera, our antifolates, or any other product candidate either currently in our drug candidate portfolio 23 Table of Contents or which we might acquire or develop in the future. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the United States and approvals from equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA an NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as preclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional preclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process might also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals might: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenue from, a product candidate; • reduce available time during which our intellectual property is protected under various U.S. and foreign patents; • impose costly procedures on us; and • diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of product candidates, particularly Northera, droxidopa for other indications or our antifolates, will severely undermine our business and could substantially extend the period before we have a saleable product, leaving us without any source of revenue until another product candidate can successfully be developed and commercialized. There is no guarantee that we will ever be able to develop and commercialize or acquire another product candidate or to obtain approval for any such additional product candidate that might be acquired. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize any drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize product candidates for sale outside the United States. Although we made changes to Study 306 based on results of an interim analysis, there can be no assurance that the results of this Phase III trial will be successful. In February 2011, we announced that an interim analysis of Study 306 indicated that further recruiting into this study was likely to be futile with respect to the original primary endpoint of the study, namely, the OHQ composite. Subsequently we unblinded these 51 patients (now designated as the Study 306A population) and determined that favorable trends were seen in secondary outcome measures including falls, OHQ Item 1 (dizziness), the Movement Disorder Society sponsored revised version of the Unified Parkinson’s Rating Scale, or MDS-UPDRS, and Hoehn Yahr scores. We believe that these favorable trends, particularly in the objective endpoint of falls, are supportive of prior study results related to symptomatic endpoints. The failure to produce favorable results in the OHQ composite is not believed to be contradictory to prior studies due to differences in the characteristics of the specific populations and the length of the study treatment period. Nonetheless, we cannot predict whether the FDA will agree with this assessment. Specifically: • Although we changed the Study 306B primary endpoint to the reduction of falls and although this endpoint trended favorably in 306A patients, there is no guarantee that the results for the Study 306B population will show statistical significance in this endpoint; and 24 Table of Contents • The targeted geographic distribution of patients as well as the targeted patient indication in Study 306B are different than in Study 302 and Study 301 and we cannot be certain that we will be able to meet our timeline for this study, particularly with respect to patient recruitment. The FDA may not approve our NDA for Northera. In November 2011, the FDA accepted for filing our NDA, filed in September 2011, seeking approval to market Northera for the treatment of symptomatic NOH in patients with primary autonomic failure, dopamine-ß-hydroxylase deficiency and non-diabetic autonomic neuropathy. The NDA was prepared based on the results from our Northera registration program, including data from our two completed Phase III efficacy studies in NOH, two long-term open-label extension studies, a dedicated thorough QTc study, and a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring safety study, and supportive data obtained from DSP. The FDA also granted our request for a Priority Review, and, under PDUFA, the FDA’s goal is to review and act on the NDA by March 28, 2012. In addition, the FDA scheduled a review of the Northera NDA at a February 2012 meeting of its CRDAC. On February 23, 2012, the FDA’s CRDAC voted 7 to 4 to recommend approval of Northera. While we believe that the design, performance and results of Study 302 and Study 301 are adequate to meet the FDA’s expectations and we received a recommendation for approval from the CDARC, we continue to face risks associated with our NDA filing, including, but not limited to, the following: • while the CRDAC recommended that the FDA approve our NDA to market Northera in the United States, the recommendation is non-binding on the FDA and though the FDA will take the recommendation into consideration in its review of the NDA, we cannot be assured that the FDA will agree with the recommendation and approve the NDA; • the FDA may fail to accept as an appropriate primary endpoint of Study 301 the relative improvement in the OHQ composite score between Northera and placebo; • the FDA may find that the safety database information contained in the NDA is inadequate to effectively establish the clinical safety of Northera or that certain adverse events reported in our clinical trials are not adequately resolved; • the FDA may find that certain adverse events in the Japanese post-approval safety monitoring programs, particularly those related to neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or NMS, are not adequately resolved; • the FDA may find that the clinical data submitted in the NDA is not sufficient to establish the clinical efficacy of Northera; and • while the FDA previously agreed, during a December 2010 pre-NDA assessment meeting, that our NDA for Northera could be submitted based on combined data from Study 301 and Study 302 and that results from Study 306 would not be required as part of the integrated summary of efficacy for the indication claimed in the filing, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not require additional clinical efficacy to support approval of our NDA. Any program delays resulting from the risks as outlined above might require additional financing for the Northera NOH program. If we require additional capital for the continued development of droxidopa, we may not be able to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. If we issue equity in such financing, it would cause dilution for our stockholders, that could be significant depending on the price and the amount of stock sold. We may determine that it is in our best interest to out-license droxidopa. However, given the regulatory and financing uncertainties, we may not be able to complete an out-licensing agreement on terms beneficial to us, or at all. 25 Table of Contents We have not determined any additional requirements that may be needed in order to meet the expectations of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or other foreign regulatory agencies in order to obtain marketing approval for Northera outside the United States. Since an initial discussion several years ago, we have only conducted limited discussions of the specifics of our clinical program with the EMA, and several individual European Union, or EU, countries’ regulatory agencies, and we have not yet determined if our current program for Northera in NOH will be acceptable for approval in EU, or any particular member country. While we continue to believe that the safety and efficacy data from Study 306B with an extended period of placebo control will better meet the requirements as expressed by the EMA previously, this data is now expected to be available in the third quarter of 2012, thus delaying the EMA filing until at least that timeframe. In 2011, we conducted discussions with several EU member country regulatory agencies to better understand their and, derivatively, the EMA’s expectations with regard to their efficacy requirements to determine if it might be appropriate to file for marketing approval prior to availability of Study 306B safety data. However, until we proceed further with those discussions it will not be clear that the existing Study 301 and Study 302 data, along with data from the related extension studies, will be sufficient for filing in the EU and if not, whether Study 306B data, with reduction of falls in patients with PD as a primary endpoint, will be adequate to complete the efficacy and safety packages to support such a filing. If not, we may be required to conduct additional efficacy trials and, regardless, we cannot guarantee that Study 306B data will show a significant symptomatic benefit for patients with NOH or that any subsequent trials will provide adequately favorable data. Our product candidate CH-4051 has had only limited formal clinical trials. Our product candidate CH-4051 is in an early stage of development and requires extensive clinical testing. In April 2009, we announced positive findings from our Phase I dose escalation clinical trials of CH-4051 in humans in Kendle International’s Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Utrecht, Netherlands under the authority of Stichting Therapeutische Evaluatie Geneesmiddelen—Medisch Ethische Toetsingscommissie, an Independent Ethics Committee. In November 2011, we announced preliminary results from a planned unblinded, interim efficacy analysis for the lower dose patients in our Phase II trial of CH-4051. The analysis included unblinded data from the lower two of three doses of CH-4051 and half the patients enrolled into the MTX control arm. Preliminary results suggest a dose-dependent therapeutic response in which patients treated with the mid-range, or 1.0mg daily oral dose, of CH-4051 experienced similar efficacy to patients treated with a standard 20.0mg weekly dose of MTX. This response suggests that patients currently receiving triple the dose, or 3.0mg, of CH-4051 in the ongoing study may experience greater therapeutic benefits than patients treated with MTX; however, there can be no assurance that such benefits will be observed in the study. In addition, we might encounter toxicity or other safety issues at the higher dose levels in the study. We currently intend to seek a partner to assist us in the development of CH-4051 and our portfolio of antifolates after the completion of Phase II proof-of-concept studies for CH-4051 in rheumatoid arthritis, results of which are expected to be available in the second quarter of 2012. After the completion of those trials and depending on available funding, we may also initiate additional Phase II studies in rheumatoid arthritis and other indications as appropriate. We currently estimate a global filing of the NDA no sooner than 2013. However, at any point during the process we might decide to focus our efforts on a different lead compound, and we cannot predict with any certainty the success or timing of our clinical trials, whether there might be sufficient interest by others to license the compounds, if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval of this product candidate or whether such an NDA will be accepted. We do not expect to conduct additional trials or make further investments in the development of CH-1504, formerly our lead antifolate product candidate. There has been only very limited testing of our I-3D product candidates. Our I-3D product candidates are early in their development. None of the candidates have had adequate toxicology testing in animals to permit clinical testing and there is no clinical evidence of efficacy for any of these candidates, despite limited similarities with compounds currently marketed by others. Animal toxicology 26 Table of Contents trials on our I-3D compounds may not permit further development of these drugs or we may have to carry out toxicology trials on several compounds before we find one that is appropriate for clinical testing, if at all. Once clinical trials are undertaken, the compound or compounds may not prove adequately safe and efficacious in humans and may not be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Moreover, because of the scarcity of capital and competing priorities within our development program we do not know when we will be able to continue any such testing or commence clinical trials. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. For example, because we did not receive orphan drug status from the EMA for droxidopa as a treatment for Parkinson’s disease, our clinical trials for that indication might have to be more involved and take longer to complete and get reviewed than otherwise would have been the case. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials might be delayed by several factors, including: • unforeseen safety issues; • clarification of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment for our ongoing trials; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and • unexpected emergence of competitive drugs against which our compounds might compete for clinical trial resources or need to be tested. In addition, we or the FDA or another governing regulatory agency may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory agency finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials or our regulatory submissions. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for our current or any future clinical trials. The results of our clinical trials might not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process might fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and might delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenue. We intend to explore additional indications for droxidopa; however these programs may not prove successful. We have announced our exploration of certain additional indications for droxidopa and we may make similar announcements in the future. While trials conducted by our partner DSP for the Japanese market provide evidence of efficacy for certain indications, other indications may be explored for which we have no existing clinical evidence of efficacy. Such trials are likely to be very costly. We do not have market approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for any of the indications we are exploring and there are no guarantees that additional clinical trials will provide new evidence of efficacy in the targeted indications or permit us to gain market approval from regulatory agencies. 27 Table of Contents Physicians and patients might not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, physicians and patients might not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug; • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; • understanding by prescribing physicians of the medical conditions we are attempting to address; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect that sales of our product candidates could, if approved, generate a substantial portion of our product revenue for an extended period, the failure of such a drug to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or curtail our operations. Our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent clinical research organizations, investigators and other collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. They might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, if their performance is substandard or the FDA determines there are issues upon review of the study data, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. If we cannot successfully enter into new agreements with outside collaborators on acceptable terms, or if we encounter disputes over or cannot renew or, if necessary, amend existing agreements, the development of our drug candidates could be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our drug development program also depends upon our partners who are outside our control. We have licensed certain rights related to droxidopa from DSP and depend upon them for data and support in advancing our clinical program for this compound. In addition, DSP is currently the preferred manufacturer of this compound for our clinical program and commercialization efforts. Without the timely support of DSP or any other partners, our drug development programs could suffer significant delays, require significantly higher spending or face cancellation. 28 Table of Contents We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates. We have only limited experience in drug formulation and no experience in drug manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. While we have a contract in place with DSP and another manufacturer to supply the droxidopa active pharmaceutical agreement for our clinical trials and a contract with a third-party manufacturer to encapsulate, package and label our commercial product in anticipation of FDA approval, we currently have no contract for the commercial scale manufacture of our antifolates or I-3D compounds. We have contracted with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our antifolate clinical trials. If any of our current product candidates or any other product candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: • We might not be able to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any, or limitations in their capacity could limit the timely availability of our product, which could alienate prescribing physicians and/or their patients if we cannot meet their demand for our drugs. • Our contract manufacturers might not perform as agreed or might not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. • Our contract manufacturers might require financial assistance to increase their capacity levels required for our markets. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. We have limited experience selling, marketing and distributing products and only limited internal capability to do so. Although we have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we have been adding personnel in this area in anticipation of commercializing Northera in the United States. In addition to our Vice President of Sales and Marketing we have hired personnel with expertise in marketing and brand management, market research and sales. We currently anticipate continued expansion of our marketing and sales capabilities over the next several months in anticipation of commercializing Northera, including the hiring of employees and the negotiating of collaborative arrangements with third parties. However, we might not be successful in hiring or developing the necessary expertise and capacity or developing the necessary collaborative arrangements for the successful commercialization of Northera. To commercialize droxidopa for any other indication or commercialize any other product candidate, we will need to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships or maintain and/or develop internal resources, which 29 Table of Contents could require significant development, expenditures, management resources and time. We are currently pursuing a number of such collaborative relationships which might increase our risks in reliance upon outside resources. Moreover, our limited experience might allow us to misjudge the potential of our product candidates, make decisions that prove less than optimal for pricing, marketing, selling or other aspects of commercialization, or provide imprecise or inaccurate financial guidance. While the FDA has announced it might seek to remove midodrine from the market, midodrine is expected to continue to be available to patients until at least the end of 2014. In August 2010, the FDA proposed removing midodrine from the market because required post-approval studies to verify the clinical benefit of the drug have not been satisfactorily completed by the manufacturer. In January 2011, the FDA opened a public docket to provide a forum to facilitate communication regarding the conduct of clinical trials needed to support the continued marketing authorization for midodrine. In December 2011, Shire reached an agreement with the FDA to conduct a new set of clinical trials to demonstrate the clinical benefit of midodrine. Accordingly, Shire indicated its intent to complete two additional clinical trials by the end of 2014. Should the FDA determine that Shire has failed to adhere to the terms or timeframes specified in this agreement, or the agreed upon trials fail to verify clinical benefit, Shire has agreed to have FDA withdraw the marketing approval for midodrine and Shire waives the right for a public hearing. Midodrine is the only approved compound for orthostatic hypotension in the U.S. It is still not clear what action the FDA will take following the conclusions of the renewed clinical trials; however, the recent agreement with Shire is likely to ensure the availability of midodrine for at least two years. Furthermore, the FDA has never removed a drug under similar circumstances and we can provide no assurance that they will do so in the case of midodrine. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we might not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. The market for our antifolate product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. The initial market for Northera, while smaller, has well established generic competition. Markets for other indications for droxidopa, such as fibromyalgia, are emerging with new and heavily marketed offerings. If Northera, droxidopa for other indications, our antifolates or other product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products might provide greater therapeutic convenience, efficacy or other benefits for a specific indication than our products or might offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have compounds already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; • launching, marketing and selling drugs; and • post-marketing safety surveillance. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to generate product revenue will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if a product candidate is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage might not be available and reimbursement levels might be inadequate to cover the cost of our drug. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product, once approved, market acceptance and our revenue could be reduced. Specifically, not all physicians recognize a separate indication for symptomatic NOH and we cannot provide assurances that reimbursement will be approved by the relevant decision makers even if droxidopa receives market approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. In addition, the U.S. and international healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing and pricing of pharmaceuticals. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed landmark healthcare legislation. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically the legislation may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of Northera or any future products. Members of the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures are seeking to overturn at least portions of the legislation and we expect they will continue to review and assess this legislation and possibly introduce alternative health care reform proposals. We cannot predict whether new proposals will be made or legislation adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us if they are adopted. Cost-containment measures, whether instituted by healthcare providers or imposed by federal or state government agencies, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, healthcare payers might challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales of new drugs may commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved products. Developments by competitors might render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis include, but are not limited to, Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Hoffmann-La Roche, Johnson & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Mylan Laboratories and UCB. Alternative technologies are being developed to treat rheumatoid arthritis by numerous companies including Pfizer, Rigel, Astra Zeneca and GSK which are in advanced clinical trials or filed with regulatory agencies. Companies that currently sell compounds used for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension include Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Impax Laboratories (Global Pharmaceuticals), Sandoz, Apotex, Upsher-Smith Laboratories and Pfizer. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. 31 Table of Contents Our success, competitive position and future revenue will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property, including patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications or those patent applications that we may file or license in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Moreover, we cannot predict the degree of patent protection that will be afforded by those patent applications that do result in issuance. Although we generally seek the broadest patent protection available for our proprietary compounds, we may not be able to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of any particular compound and may be limited to protecting a new method of use for the compound or otherwise restricted in our ability to prevent others from exploiting the compound. If our patent protection for any particular compound is limited to a particular method of use or indication such that, if a third party were to obtain approval of the compound for use in another indication, we could be subject to competition arising from that third party. Moreover, our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. If a third party legally challenges our patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our U.S. or foreign patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our patents or other intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar products. In addition, we do not anticipate having patent protection on droxidopa when and if it receives market approval by the FDA for NOH under the brand name Northera™. While the orphan drug designation for this compound by the FDA will provide seven years of market exclusivity, we will not be able to exclude other companies from manufacturing and/or selling this compound beyond that timeframe. Claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights may result in liability for damages or prevent or delay our developmental and commercialization efforts. If a third party were to file a patent infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent infringed, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any necessary license may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain themselves as a result. We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights. Failure to protect our patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the 32 Table of Contents outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Existing patents and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses might not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. Some jurisdictions have laws that permit the government to force a patentee to grant a license to a third party for commercialization of a patented product if the government concludes that the product is not sufficiently developed or not meeting the health needs of the population. Such compulsory licensing laws are very rarely invoked outside of South America and Africa. In addition, a number of countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a new drug, it is possible that any related patent may expire before any of our product candidates can be commercialized or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. In either case, this would reduce any advantages of the patent. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under current and future license agreements, we could lose license rights which would adversely affect our business. We license patent and/or certain other rights from DSP for droxidopa. Similarly, we are a party to a license agreement with Dr. M. Gopal Nair under which we license patent rights for our product candidate CH-4051 and other antifolates. We may enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various milestone payments, royalty payments and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. If a licensor challenges our license position, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our license agreement with DSP reserves rights to the licensor in Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan which preclude our commercialization of droxidopa in those markets. Our license agreement with Dr. Nair reserves rights to the licensor in India. Therefore, we will not commercialize our licensed antifolates in India. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to enforce trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, our competitive position might be harmed. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors, as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents are unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, it is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements might not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we might have to: • obtain licenses, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon an infringing drug candidate; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. We might not successfully manage our growth. We are a small, development stage company. Assuming FDA approval of Northera as well as approval of our other product candidates, our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. As of March 2, 2012, we had 49 full-time, permanent employees. We anticipate that we will need to identify, attract, train and retain other highly skilled personnel as we continue to develop our product candidates and commercialize Northera in the United States. In particular, we are currently in the process of recruiting approximately 85 sales representatives to address the market opportunity in the United States should our NDA for Northera be approved. Hiring for such personnel is competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We might be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities might involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures, and those of our partners, for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state, local and, where applicable, foreign laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could 34 Table of Contents materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products might require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. As a small, development stage, company, we are highly dependent on our executive officers, including particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Simon Pedder, Ph.D., and our principal scientific, regulatory, sales, marketing and medical officers and advisors. Dr. Pedder is the only executive officer whose employment with us is governed by an employment agreement, and the term of employment under that agreement expires on December 31, 2014. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of any future customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. As a small, development stage company, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, distribution, administration and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our success. We might incur substantial liabilities and might be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we might incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Although we carry clinical trial insurance, we might not be able to renew such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or our intended collaborators may be unable to obtain such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, that indemnification might not be available or adequate should any claim arise. Risks Related to Our Securities The trading volume of our common stock is limited and our investors may encounter difficulties selling significant quantities of our stock without adversely impacting the price at which they can sell. Since listing with the NASDAQ in May of 2006, the trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from day to day and often the number of shares traded has been low. Any large transactions in our common stock might be difficult to conduct and may cause significant fluctuations in the price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents The prices at which shares of our common stock are traded will likely be volatile. You should expect the prices at which our common stock is traded to be highly volatile. Since the commencement of NASDAQ trading in May 2006, the price has varied from a low of $1.09 to a high of $8.41. The expected volatile price of our stock will make it difficult to predict the value of your investment, to sell your shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of other factors might also affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • approval, failure to obtain approval or delays in obtaining approval for our NDA for Northera, currently under review by the FDA, or for any of our other product candidates; • ability to out-license our products in the United States or elsewhere and the terms of such potential agreements; • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delays or failures in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; • pricing of our product candidates; • success or delays in commercialization of our product candidates; • market acceptance of our product candidates; • approvals, delays in or rejection of regulatory approvals for our competitor’s products by U.S. or foreign regulators; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for pharmaceutical companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that might have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors might seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have never paid dividends and do not intend to pay cash dividends. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance our future operations. 36 Table of Contents If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. Currently, six financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our shares of common stock. As of March 2, 2012, we had 67,040,569 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for public sale, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. The market price of our common stock may decline if our common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur. In addition, we have outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,101,430 and 2,818,022 shares, respectively, of our common stock. If these options or warrants are exercised and the shares issued upon exercise are sold, the market price of our securities may also decline. These factors also could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 