Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the more detailed descriptions of our business elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: We may be unable to continue to compete effectively in our industry. Competition in the automotive retail technology industry is intense. The indirect automotive retail finance industry is highly fragmented and is served by a variety of entities, including web-based automotive finance credit application processors, the proprietary credit application processing systems of the financing source affiliates of automobile manufacturers, dealer management system providers, automotive retail sales desking providers and vehicle configuration providers. DealerTrack also competes with warranty and insurance providers, as well as software providers, among others, in the market for menu-selling products and services, compliance products and inventory analytics. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with dealers and may offer dealers other products and services that we do not provide. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can to ours. We expect the market to continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, possibly involving alternative technologies that are more sophisticated and cost-effective than our technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may face increased competition from RouteOne and the captive financing source affiliates of the manufacturers that have formed RouteOne. Our network of financing sources does not include the captive financing sources affiliated with DaimlerChrysler AG, Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation or Toyota Motor Corporation, which have formed RouteOne to operate as a direct competitor of ours to serve their respective franchised dealers. RouteOne has the ability to offer its dealers access to captive or other financing sources that are not in our network. RouteOne was launched in November 2003, and officially re-launched in July 2004. Several independent financing sources, including some of the independent financing sources in our network, are participating on the RouteOne credit application processing and routing portal. If RouteOne increases the number of independent financing sources on its credit application processing and routing portal and/or offers products and services that better address the needs of our customers or offer our customers a lower cost alternative, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a substantial amount of our current customers migrate from our network to RouteOne, our ability to sell additional products and services to, or earn transaction revenue from, these customers could diminish. RouteOne has repeatedly approached each of our largest financing source customers seeking to have them join the RouteOne credit application processing and routing portal. Some of our financing source customers have engaged, are engaged and/or may in the future engage, in discussions with RouteOne regarding their participation on the RouteOne credit application processing and routing portal or may already have agreed to participate, or be participating, on this portal. 12 Table of Contents Some vendors of software products used by automotive dealers, including certain of our competitors, are designing their software and using financial incentives to make it more difficult for our customers to use our products and services. Currently, some software vendors have designed their software systems in order to make it difficult to integrate with third-party products and services such as ours and others have announced their intention to do so. Some software vendors also use financial or other incentives to encourage their customers to purchase such vendors’ proprietary complementary products and services. These obstacles could make it more difficult for us to compete with these vendors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we have agreements in place with various third-party software providers to facilitate integration between their software and our network, and we cannot assure you that each of these agreements will remain in place or that during the terms of these agreements these third parties will not increase the cost or level of difficulty in maintaining integration with their software. For example, the term of our integration agreement with ADP, Inc., initially scheduled to terminate on March 19, 2006, has been extended by the parties until May 1, 2006. This agreement, among other things, allows us to integrate our network with certain modules of ADP’s automotive dealer management system software. The agreement is subject to a one-year wind-down period, and, although we are continuing to negotiate a new agreement with ADP, we may not be able to do so. Additionally, we integrate certain of our products and services with other third parties’ software programs. These third parties may design or utilize their software in a manner that makes it more difficult for us to continue to integrate our products and services in the same manner, or at all. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on several customers that are affiliates of some of our major stockholders. We have historically earned a substantial portion of our net revenue from financing source customers that are affiliates of our major stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2005, $27.0 million, or 22% of our net revenue, was generated by the nine financing sources that are affiliates of some of our major stockholders. Although each financing source customer is currently a party to an agreement with us, the obligations of the financing sources under these agreements are minimal and these financing source customers, like all of our other financing source customers, may terminate their agreements at the end of their respective terms or for uncured breach. They may also enter into, and in some cases may have already entered into, agreements with our competitors. None of these financing source customers is contractually or otherwise obligated to use our network exclusively. Our systems and network may be subject to security breaches, interruptions, failures and/or other errors or may be harmed by other events beyond our control. Our systems may be subject to security breaches. Our success depends on the confidence of dealers, financing sources, the major credit reporting agencies and our other network participants in our ability to transmit confidential information securely over the Internet and operate our computer systems and operations without significant disruption or failure. We transmit substantial amounts of confidential information, including non-public personal information, over the Internet. Moreover, even if our security measures are adequate, concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and commercial online services, which may be heightened by any well-publicized compromise of security, may deter customers from using our products and services. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to confidential information, our service may be perceived as not being secure and financing sources or dealers may curtail or stop using our service. Any failure by, or lack of confidence in, our secure online products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our focus on Internet security, we may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications among dealers, financing sources, the major credit reporting agencies and other service and information providers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used by our products and services to protect certain data contained in our databases and the information being transferred. 13 Table of Contents Although we generally limit warranties and liabilities relating to security in financing source and dealer contracts, third parties may seek to hold us liable for any losses suffered as a result of unauthorized access to their confidential information or non-public personal information. We may not have limited our warranties and liabilities sufficiently or have adequate insurance to cover these losses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate the problems caused. Our security measures may not be sufficient to prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our network may be vulnerable to interruptions or failures. From time to time, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, network slowdowns and interruptions. These network slowdowns and interruptions may interfere with our ability to do business. Although we regularly back up data and take other measures to protect against data loss and system failures, there is still some risk that we may lose critical data or experience network failures. For example, in August 2005, we experienced a system failure that caused a delay in our ability to process credit applications and other transactions on two separate days. As a result, our customers experienced a disruption in their use of our systems and we may have lost revenue opportunities on those days. Undetected errors in our software may harm our operations. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct. Our products and services are integrated with products and systems developed by third parties. Complex third-party software programs may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. It is possible that errors, defects or bugs will be found in our existing or future products and services or third-party products upon which our products and services are dependent, with the possible results of delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Our systems may be harmed by events beyond our control. Our computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, such as fire, floods and hurricanes, power outages, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, network service outages and disruptions, “denial of service” attacks, computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage and other similar events beyond our control. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our facilities in the New York metropolitan area or at any third-party facility we utilize, such as our disaster recovery center in Waltham, MA, could cause interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data or render us unable to provide our products and services. In addition, failure of a third-party facility to provide the data communications capacity required by us, as a result of human error, bankruptcy, natural disaster or other operational disruption, could cause interruptions to our computer systems and operations. The occurrence of any or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could adversely affect our operations. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to execute our business strategy, which includes the following key elements: • selling additional products and services to our existing customers; • expanding our customer base; • expanding our product and service offerings; and • pursuing acquisitions and strategic alliances. 14 Table of Contents We may not succeed in implementing a portion or all of our business strategy and, even if we do succeed, our strategy may not have the favorable impact on operations that we anticipate. Our success depends on our ability to execute our business plan, leverage our distribution channel and value proposition for dealers, financing sources and other service and information providers, offer a broad array of products and services, provide convenient, high-quality products and services, maintain our technological position and implement other elements of our business strategy. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully avail ourselves of the market opportunity for our products and services. If we are unable to adequately implement our business strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have a very limited operating history. We have a very limited operating history upon which you may evaluate our business and our prospects. We launched our business in February 2001. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development in new and rapidly evolving markets. In order to overcome these risks and difficulties, we must, among other things: • minimize security concerns; • increase and retain the number of financing sources and automotive dealers that are active in our network; • build brand recognition of our network products and services among dealership employees; • prevent and respond quickly to service interruptions; • develop our technology, new products and services; • reduce the time involved in integrating new financing sources and other third parties into our network; and • continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain qualified personnel. If we fail to adequately address these risks and difficulties or fail in executing our business strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our budgeted operating costs are based on the anticipated growth of our future revenue, which is based on our ability to retain existing automotive dealer and financing source customers, integrate new automotive dealer and financing source customers and launch the products and services we have under development. We may not, however, be able to forecast growth accurately due to our limited operating history. If we do not grow as anticipated and our expenditures are not reduced accordingly, our operating results could decline significantly, and we may not remain profitable. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. These fluctuations are due to several factors related to the number of transactions we process and to the number of subscriptions to our products and services, including: • the volume of new and used automobiles financed or leased by our participating financing source customers; • the timing, size and nature of our subscriptions; • the incurrence of marketing expenses in the first quarter in connection with the NADA’s annual trade show; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of new products, services or product enhancements by us or our competitors; 15 Table of Contents • automobile manufacturers or their captive financing sources offering special incentive programs such as discount pricing or 0% financing; • unpredictable sales cycles; • the number of weekends, holidays and Mondays in a particular quarter; • the timing of our acquisitions of businesses, products and services; • product and price competition regarding our products and services and those of our participating financing sources; • changes in our operating expenses; • software bugs or other computer system or operation disruptions or failures; and • personnel changes and fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. We cannot assure you that future revenue and results of operations will not vary substantially from quarter to quarter. It is also possible that in future quarters, our results of operations will be below the expectations of public market analysts, investors or our announced guidance. In either case, the price of our stock could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to develop and bring products and services in development and new products and services to market in a timely manner. Our success depends in part upon our ability to bring to market the products and services that we have in development and offer new products and services that meet changing customer needs. The time, expense and effort associated with developing and offering these new products and services may be greater than anticipated. The length of the development cycle varies depending on the nature and complexity of the product, the availability of development, product management and other internal resources, and the role, if any, of strategic partners. If we are unable to develop and bring additional products and services to market in a timely manner, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to offer these additional products and services, which could also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Economic trends that affect the automotive retail industry may have a negative effect on our business. Economic trends that negatively affect the automotive retail industry may adversely affect our business by reducing the number of financing source or automotive dealer customers that purchase our products and services or by reducing the amount that such customers spend on our products and services. Purchases of new automobiles are typically discretionary for consumers and may be affected by negative trends in the economy including negative trends relating to the cost of energy and gasoline. A reduction in the number of automobiles purchased by consumers may adversely affect our financing source and dealer customers and lead to a reduction in transaction volumes and in spending by our financing source and automotive dealer customers on our subscription products and services. Any such reductions in transactions or subscriptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations may adversely affect our business. The indirect automotive financing and automotive retail industries are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. We are directly and indirectly subject to various laws and regulations. Federal laws and regulations governing privacy of consumer information generally apply in the context of our business, such as the GLB Act and its implementing Regulation P, the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards, the Interagency Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Customer Information and Customer Notice, and the FTC’s Privacy Rule, Safeguards Rule and Consumer Report Information Disposal Rule, as well as the 16 Table of Contents FCRA. If a financing source or dealer discloses consumer information provided through our system in violation of these or other laws, we may be subject to claims from such consumers or enforcement actions by state or federal regulators. We cannot predict whether such claims or enforcement actions will arise or the extent to which, if at all, we may be held liable. A majority of states have passed, or are currently contemplating, consumer protection, privacy, and data security laws or regulations that may relate to our business. The FCRA contains certain provisions that explicitly preempt some state laws to the extent the state laws seek to regulate certain specified areas, including the responsibilities of persons furnishing information to consumer reporting agencies. Unlike the FCRA, however, the GLB Act does not limit the ability of the states to enact privacy legislation that provides greater protections to consumers than those provided by the GLB Act. Some state legislatures or regulatory agencies have imposed, and others may impose, greater restrictions on the disclosure of consumer information than are already contained in the GLB Act, Regulation P, the Interagency Guidelines or the FTC’s rules. Any such legislation or regulation could adversely impact our ability to provide our customers with the products and services they require and that are necessary to make our products and services attractive to them. In the event that any state imposes additional statutory or regulatory requirements on us or our customers, we may be required to modify our business model in that state in a manner that may undermine our attractiveness to dealers and/or financing sources doing business in that state. Alternatively, if we determine that a given state’s requirements are overly burdensome or if we determine that our activities cannot be structured in a manner that does not implicate such requirements, we may elect to terminate operations in such state. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The use of our electronic contracting product by financing sources is governed by relatively new laws. In the United States, the enforceability of electronic transactions is primarily governed by the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, a federal law enacted in 2000 that largely preempts inconsistent state law, and the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, a uniform state law that was finalized by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1999 and has now been adopted by most states. Case law has generally upheld the use of electronic signatures in commercial transactions and in consumer transactions where proper notice is provided and consumer consent to electronic contracting is obtained. UCC 9-105 provides requirements to perfect security interests in electronic chattel paper. These laws impact the degree to which the financing sources in our network use our electronic contracting product. We believe that our electronic contracting product enables the perfection of a security interest in electronic chattel paper by meeting the transfer of “control” requirements of UCC 9-105. However, this issue has not been challenged in any legal proceeding. If a court were to find that our electronic contracting product is not sufficient to perfect a security interest in electronic chattel paper, or if existing laws were to change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. New legislation or changes in existing legislation may adversely affect our business. Our ability to conduct, and our cost of conducting, business may be adversely affected by a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning aspects of the Internet, which are currently under consideration by federal, state, local and foreign governments and various courts. These proposals include, but are not limited to, the following matters: on-line content, user privacy, taxation, access charges, liability of third-party activities and jurisdiction. Moreover, we do not know how existing laws relating to these issues will be applied to the Internet. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government restrictions on Internet content could slow the growth of Internet use and decrease acceptance of the Internet as a communications and commercial medium and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If a federal or state government or agency imposes additional legislative and/or regulatory requirements on us or our customers, or prohibits or limits our activities as currently structured, we may be required to modify or 17 Table of Contents terminate our products and services in that jurisdiction in a manner which may undermine our attractiveness or availability to dealers and/or financing sources doing business in that jurisdiction. We utilize certain key technologies from, and integrate our network with, third parties and may be unable to replace those technologies if they become obsolete, unavailable or incompatible with our products or services. Our proprietary software is designed to work in conjunction with certain software from third-party vendors, including Microsoft, Oracle and eOriginal. Any significant interruption in the supply of such third-party software could have a material adverse effect on our ability to offer our products unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by these products. In addition, we are dependent upon these third parties’ ability to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. There can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently incorporated into our products or services in the event that such software becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products or services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. Any delay in or inability to replace any such functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, delays in the release of new and upgraded versions of third-party software products could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the term of our integration agreement with ADP, Inc., initially scheduled to terminate on March 19, 2006, has been extended by the parties until May 1, 2006. This agreement, among other things, allows us to integrate our network with certain modules of ADP’s automotive dealer management system software. The agreement is subject to a one-year wind-down period. We are also a party to an agreement with Equifax Information Services LLC, that, among other things, allows us to integrate consumer credit reports directly with this major credit reporting agency. This agreement with Equifax terminates on April 1, 2006. We expect to negotiate new agreements with each of these entities to take effect following the agreements currently in place. If we do not enter into a new agreement with any of these parties, we may not be able to continue to offer the same level of integration with such party. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products and services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of Canada, and any other foreign countries in which we may market our products and services in the future, may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, and we may not prevail. We are currently asserting our patent rights against RouteOne in a proceeding that challenges their system and method for credit application processing and routing. There can be no assurances that we will prevail in that proceeding or that the proceeding will not result in certain of our patent rights being deemed invalid. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We own the Internet domain names “dealertrack.com,” “alg.com,” “chrome.com,” “dealeraccess.com” and certain other domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars 18 Table of Contents or modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our domain names. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. The relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting intellectual property rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, enter into royalty or licensing agreements or develop or license substitute technology. We may in the future be subject to claims that our technologies in our products and services infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. In addition, the vendors providing us with technology that we use in our own technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe any intellectual property or other proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that our products and services do not, or that they will not in the future, infringe intellectual property or other proprietary rights held by others. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, or obtain a license to continue to use the products and services that is the subject of the claim, and/or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from the third party asserting any particular claim, if at all, that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the products and services. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements for certain products and services that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to technology we provide to those customers, which could obligate us to pay damages if the products and services were found to be infringing. Infringement claims asserted against us, our vendors or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We could be sued for contract or product liability claims, and such lawsuits may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention or have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide guarantees to subscribers of certain of our products and services that the data they receive through these products and services will be accurate. Additionally, general errors, defects or other performance problems in our products and services could result in financial or other damages to our customers. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions in excess of the applicable deductible amount. There can be no assurance that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage for any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention from our operations. Any contract liability claim or litigation against us could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our products and services are business-critical for our dealer and financing source customers, and a failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain existing business or attract new business. 19 Table of Contents We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and intend to do so in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners or to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2001, we have acquired nine businesses, including our acquisition in February 2006 of substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of WiredLogic, Inc. d/b/a DealerWire. As part of our ongoing business strategy to expand product offerings and acquire new technology, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. There may be significant competition for acquisition targets in our industry, or we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or negotiate attractive terms for acquisitions. If we are unable to identify future acquisition opportunities, reach agreement with such third parties or obtain the financing necessary to make such acquisitions, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions or enter into alliances and joint ventures that we believe will be successful, such transactions are inherently risky. Significant risks to these transactions include the following: • integration and restructuring costs, both one-time and ongoing; • maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations; • establishing new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business; • losing key employees; • failing to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services; and • unanticipated and unknown liabilities. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our acquisition strategy. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete acquisitions. In addition, we could use substantial portions of our available cash to pay all or a portion of the purchase prices of future acquisitions. Any acquisitions that we complete may dilute your ownership interest in us, may have adverse effects on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and may cause unanticipated liabilities. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership interests. Future acquisitions may also decrease our earnings or earnings per share and the benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not outweigh or might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. We also may incur additional indebtedness or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges, in particular with respect to our acquisitions of Chrome, NAT and ALG in 2005 and our recent acquisition of DealerWire. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Chrome and ALG earn revenue from the data they collect and generate in their respective businesses. If we are unable to integrate or sell such data in our other products and services, we will not be able to fully realize the business synergies we anticipate from these acquisitions. Several pre-existing customers of Chrome and ALG are also competitors or affiliates of competitors of ours. Some of these customers may elect to find alternative vendors instead of doing business with an affiliate of a competitor. For example, Chrome is party to a contract that expires in 2006 with 20 Table of Contents General Motors Corporation, an affiliate of General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which has an ownership interest in RouteOne. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Chrome generated $5.6 million in revenue from General Motors Corporation pursuant to this contract, which is down from $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. There can be no assurance that General Motors will renew this contract upon its expiration. Failure to successfully integrate recent acquisitions or future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. During the preparation of our prospectus related to our initial public offering, we identified, and our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a letter regarding, the identification of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss in investor confidence in our reported results and could adversely affect our stock price, and thus, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. During the preparation of our prospectus related to our initial public offering, we identified matters that constitute material weaknesses in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. In general, a material weakness is defined as a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weaknesses we identified were as follows: Our accounting and finance staff at a then-recently acquired subsidiary did not maintain effective controls over recognition of revenue as it related to cut-off at that subsidiary. Specifically, we did not reconcile shipments to customers with revenue recognized in the period. In addition, we did not adequately review and analyze subsidiary financial information at a sufficient level of detail to detect a material error. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2005. With the implementation of the additional controls and procedures described in Item 9A to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we believe that we have remediated this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. However, if we had failed to remediate this material weakness or if we have any failure in the future to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a public company, and thus, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Becoming subject to the public reporting requirements of the Exchange Act upon the completion of our initial public offering in December 2005 has intensified the need to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we are under added pressure to meet our reporting obligations in a timely manner once we become subject to the shorter filing deadlines applicable to accelerated filers under the Exchange Act, which could be as early as December 31, 2006. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing or future subsidiaries’ abilities, among other things, to: • access our, or our existing or future subsidiaries’, cash flow and value and, therefore, to pay interest and/or principal on our other indebtedness or to pay dividends on our common stock; • incur additional indebtedness; • issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our, or our existing or future subsidiaries’, capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments or investments; • sell assets, including our capital stock; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • agree to payment restrictions; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or the applicable subsidiary’s assets; 21 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with our or the applicable subsidiary’s affiliates; • incur liens; and • designate any of our, or the applicable subsidiary’s, future subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, our credit facilities include other and more restrictive covenants and prohibit our subsidiaries from prepaying our other indebtedness while indebtedness under our credit facilities is outstanding. The agreements governing our credit facilities also require us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios on a consolidated basis. Our and our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in the agreements governing our credit facilities could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the agreements governing our credit facilities. If a default occurs, the lenders under our credit facilities may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, if any, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or prevent our subsidiaries from making distributions to us in order for us to make payments on our indebtedness, either of which could result in an event of default under such indebtedness. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our credit facilities will also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If any indebtedness under our credit facilities were to be accelerated, we can make no assurances that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We are dependent on our key management, direct sales force and technical personnel for continued success. We have grown significantly in recent years, and our management remains concentrated in a small number of key employees. Our future success depends to a significant extent on our executive officers and key employees, including members of our direct sales force and technology staff, such as our software developers and other senior technical personnel. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to sell subscription products and services to automotive dealers. We may need to hire additional sales, customer service, integration and training personnel in the near-term and beyond if we are to achieve revenue growth in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or group of individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense and we compete for these personnel with other technology companies that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any difficulty in hiring needed personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. For example, net revenue increased from $11.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 to $38.7 million, $70.0 million and $120.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our growth may place a strain on our management team, information systems and other resources. Our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires oversight from our senior management, as well as adequate information systems and other resources. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. As we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to hire, train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. If we are unable to 22 Table of Contents manage our growth, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if we raise additional capital, it may dilute our stockholders’ ownership in us. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to meet various objectives, such as: • acquiring businesses, technologies, products and services; • taking advantage of growth opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • making capital improvements to increase our capacity; • developing new services or products; and • responding to competitive pressures. Any debt incurred by us could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or further acquisitions. Covenants governing any debt we incur would likely restrict our ability to take specific actions, including our ability to pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge, consolidate or sell our assets or make capital expenditure investments. In addition, the use of a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations to cover debt service obligations and any security interests we grant on our assets could limit our financial and business flexibility. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute our stockholders’ respective ownership percentages in us. Furthermore, any additional debt or equity financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to raise additional capital, which could significantly limit our ability to implement our business plan. In addition, we may issue securities, including debt securities, that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Our future success depends substantially on continued growth in the use of the Internet by automotive dealers and the indirect automotive finance industry. The Internet is a relatively new commercial marketplace for automotive dealers, particularly for their finance and insurance department managers, and may not continue to grow. The market for web-based automotive finance is rapidly evolving and the ultimate demand for and market acceptance of web-based automotive finance remains uncertain. Market acceptance of Internet automotive financing depends on financing sources’ and dealers’ willingness to use the Internet for general commercial and financial services transactions. Other critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, including reliability, security, cost, ease of use and access and quality of service, may also impact the growth of Internet use by financing sources and dealers. Consequently, web-based automotive financing may not become as widely accepted as traditional methods of financing and electronic contracting may not become as widely accepted as paper contracting. In either case our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If Internet use by automotive dealers and financing sources does not continue to grow, dealers may revert to traditional methods of communication with financing sources, such as the fax machine, and thus, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, to the extent the Internet’s technical infrastructure or security concerns adversely affect its growth, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Internet could also lose its commercial viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of activity or due to increased governmental regulation. Changes in or insufficient availability of telecommunication services could produce slower response times and adversely affect Internet use. 23 Table of Contents Risks relating to transactions and relationships with certain of our major stockholders and their respective affiliates. Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit our other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcomes of key transactions, including a change of control. Our stockholders that own more than 5% of our equity securities, directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned approximately 63.5% of the outstanding shares of our equity securities as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, these principal stockholders, directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from our other stockholders’ interests and may vote in a way adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. We are dependent on certain of our financing source customers that are affiliated with some of our major stockholders. We have historically earned a substantial portion of our revenue from certain financing sources, affiliates of which sold shares in our initial public offering and may sell more shares in the future. We rely on our financing source customers to receive credit application and electronic contracting data from automotive dealers through our network. Four of these stockholders — ACF Investment Corp., Capital One Auto Finance, Inc., J.P. Morgan Partners (23A SBIC), L.P. and Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc. — which are affiliates of certain of our financing source customers, had a right to appoint a member of our board of directors that terminated upon the completion of our initial public offering. None of these financing source customers are contractually or otherwise obligated to continue to use our network exclusively. Reduced involvement in our affairs by these financing sources after our initial public offering due to their affiliates’ loss of a right to designate a member of our board of directors, or the reduction in the level of their affiliates’ equity ownership as a result of these affiliates selling shares of our stock, may cause them to reduce or discontinue their use of our network and other services. This could negatively impact the use of our network by our other financing source and dealer customers. The loss of, or a significant reduction of, participation in our network by these financing source customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Several of our financing source customers or their affiliates own, in the aggregate, a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. These customers may have strategic interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. Several of our financing source customers or their affiliates have been equity owners prior to our initial public offering and continue to beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 38.1% of our common stock. These financing source customers may have strategic interests that are different from ours and those of our other stockholders. For example, in their capacity as financing source customers, they would presumably favor lower credit application and electronic contracting fees. Furthermore, as participants, or potential participants, of competitive networks, they may decide to direct some or all of their business to one or more of our competitors. While these actions, if taken, would presumably reduce our revenue and our market capitalization, and, therefore, the value of their ownership position in us, there can be no assurance that they will not decide to take such actions for their own strategic or other reasons. We are not a party to any voting agreement with any of our stockholders and are not aware of any voting agreements among our financing source customers; however, they may enter into a voting agreement in the future or otherwise vote in a similar manner. To the extent that all of these financing source customers or their affiliates vote 24 Table of Contents similarly, they will be able to significantly influence decisions requiring approval by our stockholders. As a result, they or their affiliates may be able to: • control the composition of our board of directors through their ability to nominate directors and vote their shares to elect them; • control our management and policies; and • determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to other stockholders. As a result of these factors, we may be less likely to enter into relationships with competitors of our stockholders, which could impede our ability to expand our business and strengthen our competitive position. Furthermore, these factors could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change in control or sale of us. Our financing source customers, including our stockholders, may elect to use competing third party services, either in addition to or instead of our network. Our financing source customers continue to receive credit applications and purchase retail installment sales and lease contracts directly from their dealer customers through traditional indirect financing methods, including via facsimile and other electronic means of communication, in addition to using our network. Many of our financing source customers are involved in other ventures as participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may compete with us and our network now and in the future. Continued use of alternative methods to ours by these financing source customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A license agreement we have with a financing source customer restricts our ability to utilize the technology licensed under this agreement beyond the automotive finance industry. An affiliate of JPMorgan claims certain proprietary rights with respect to certain technology developed as of February 1, 2001. We have an exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free license throughout the world to use this technology in connection with the sale, leasing and financing of automobiles only, and the right to market, distribute and sub-license this technology solely to automotive dealerships, consumers and financing sources in connection with the sale, leasing and financing of automobiles only. The license agreement defines “automobile” as a passenger vehicle or light truck, snowmobiles, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, boats and other watercraft and commercial vehicles and excludes manufactured homes. We are limited in our ability to utilize the licensed technology beyond the automotive finance industry. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a newly public company, we have begun to, and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, corporate governance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are now subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), the NASDAQ Stock Market and other rules and regulations. These rules and regulations may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual reports such as this Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We currently do not have an internal audit group. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may need to hire additional accounting staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher 25 Table of Contents costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including, but not limited to, the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • our stockholders have only limited rights to amend our by-laws; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 