Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our success depends on the commercial success of our only product, OFIRMEV®. Our success depends on the continued success of our efforts to commercialize our only product, OFIRMEV, which was approved by the FDA in November 2010 for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics and the reduction of fever in adults and children two years of age and older. We launched OFIRMEV in January 2011, but our ability to maintain and increase revenues from sales of OFIRMEV will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to increase market demand for OFIRMEV through our own marketing and sales activities, and any other arrangements to promote this product we may later establish; • our ability to maintain and defend our patent protection and regulatory exclusivity for OFIRMEV; • our ability to continue to procure a supply of OFIRMEV from our sole source third-party manufacturer in sufficient quantities and at acceptable quality and pricing levels in order to meet commercial demand; • the performance of our third-party manufacturer and our ability to ensure that our supply chain for OFIRMEV efficiently and consistently delivers OFIRMEV to our customers; • our ability to continue to deploy and support a qualified sales force; • our ability to maintain fees and discounts payable to the wholesalers and distributors who distribute OFIRMEV, as well as to group purchasing organizations, at commercially reasonable levels; • whether the FTC, DOJ or third parties seek to challenge and are successful in challenging our settlement agreement with Perrigo; • the occurrence of adverse side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy of OFIRMEV, and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls; and • our ability to achieve hospital formulary acceptance for OFIRMEV, and to the extent third-party payors separately cover and reimburse for OFIRMEV, the availability of adequate levels of reimbursement for OFIRMEV from third-party payors. Any disruption in our ability to generate revenues from the sale of OFIRMEV or lack of success in its commercialization will have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. The continued success of our commercialization of OFIRMEV is subject to many internal and external challenges and if we cannot overcome these challenges in a timely manner, our revenues and profits could be materially and adversely impacted. OFIRMEV was launched in January 2011. Since that time, we have continued to expend significant time and resources to provide effective promotional materials to our sales force and medical affairs staff for their use in communicating about OFIRMEV with physicians, nurses, hospitals and other customers, and to ensure that a 22 Table of Contents consistent and appropriate message about OFIRMEV is being delivered to our potential customers. The effectiveness of our promotional and medical communication materials about OFIRMEV is critically important to our efforts to inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of OFIRMEV and its proper administration, and the continued success of our commercialization activities for the product. In addition to extensive internal efforts, the continued successful commercialization of OFIRMEV requires many third parties, over whom we have no control, to decide to utilize OFIRMEV and to make it readily available at the point of care throughout their hospitals. These third parties include physicians, pharmacists, and hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees, which are commonly referred to as P&T committees. Generally, before we can attempt to sell OFIRMEV in a hospital, OFIRMEV must be approved for addition to that hospital’s list of approved drugs, or formulary list, by the hospital’s P&T committee. A hospital’s P&T committee typically governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including review of medication formulary data and recommendations for the appropriate use of drugs within the institution to the medical staff. The frequency of P&T committee meetings at various hospitals varies considerably, and P&T committees often require additional information to aide in their decision-making process, so we may experience substantial delays in obtaining formulary approvals. Additionally, hospital pharmacists may be concerned that the cost of acquiring OFIRMEV for use in their institutions will adversely impact their overall pharmacy budgets, which could cause pharmacists to resist efforts to add OFIRMEV to the formulary, or to implement restrictions on the usage of the drug in order to control costs, either initially or later, when the increasing use of OFIRMEV within their institution begins to significantly impact their budgets. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in getting the approvals we need from enough P&T committees and overcoming any financial objections raised by hospital pharmacists quickly enough to maintain and grow hospital sales of OFIRMEV. We have no manufacturing capabilities and depend entirely upon our sole source contract manufacturer to produce OFIRMEV. If our contract manufacturer fails to meet our requirements for OFIRMEV, or fails to fully comply with cGMP regulations, we may be unable to meet market demand, and may lose potential revenues. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls, and the use of specialized processing equipment. We have no such manufacturing capabilities, so we have relied upon contract manufacturers as our source for OFIRMEV. In February 2013, we amended our supply agreement with Lawrence Laboratories, an operating division of Swords Laboratories and a member of the BMS group of companies, under which BMS Anagni, an indirect subsidiary of BMS located in Anagni, Italy, manufactures OFIRMEV for us on behalf of Lawrence Laboratories. BMS Anagni, which is currently our sole source for OFIRMEV, has manufactured the product for more than ten years for sale and distribution by BMS and its affiliates in a number of countries outside of the U.S. and Canada. In March 2013, we entered into an agreement with Grifols for the development, manufacture and supply of commercial quantities of OFIRMEV in flexible plastic bags. We plan to submit a supplemental NDA to the FDA in the second half of 2013 seeking approval of the product to be manufactured by Grifols, but Grifols will not be able to supply us with OFIRMEV until FDA approval is granted, if ever. Our contract manufacturers must comply with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations, including GMP regulations. The FDA will inspect our contract manufacturers’ facilities from time to time and, in the event that any such inspection reveals that the facility is not in compliance with applicable regulations, the FDA may issue fines and civil penalties, suspend production, suspend or delay any subsequent product approvals, seize or recall our products, or withdraw our product approval, which would limit the availability of OFIRMEV. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and our relationships with our customers, product liability claims and litigation. 23 Table of Contents We also currently rely upon a single source for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for OFIRMEV, as well as for other critical components of OFIRMEV. We have entered into a supply agreement for the commercial supply of the API. If our supplier becomes unable to meet our demand for the API, the process of changing or adding a new API manufacturer may require additional testing and prior FDA approval and may be expensive and time-consuming. If we were unable to manage such changes effectively, we could face supply disruptions that could result in significant costs and delays, damage to our reputation or commercial prospects and cause us to lose potential revenues. Although we actively manage these third party relationships to ensure continuity and quality, some events beyond our control could result in the complete or partial failure of these goods and services. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. In addition, as OFIRMEV is a relatively new product in the U.S., the effect of any delay or failure to deliver could be magnified due to the short sales track record for OFIRMEV. For example, in February 2012, we announced a voluntary recall of a single lot of OFIRMEV that was manufactured by our previous contract manufacturer, Baxter, and in July 2012, we announced a second voluntary recall of product manufactured at Baxter’s facility, due to the presence of unidentified, visible particles in a limited number of vials of the product, which were detected during routine stability testing. Although we received no adverse event reports associated with the particulate matter or product complaints involving similar particulate matter, as a precautionary measure we suspended production by Baxter in connection with the initial recall and decided to recall all remaining lots of OFIRMEV manufactured by Baxter in connection with the second recall. As a result of the first recall, during the first quarter of 2012, some of our customers experienced short-term supply delays due to the temporary suspension of shipments from Baxter before we were able to expedite sufficient shipments of OFIRMEV from BMS Anagni. In addition, during that time we incurred higher freight costs to expedite shipments of OFIRMEV from BMS Anagni in order to meet demand for the product following the temporary suspension at Baxter’s facility. We also continued to incur unabsorbed manufacturing costs due to fixed costs that continued to accrue under our supply agreement with Baxter during the time that Baxter’s manufacturing of the product was suspended. As a result of the second recall, we decided to destroy the Baxter-manufactured finished product inventory that we previously placed on indefinite hold. We recorded charges of $5.8 million in relation to this product due to uncertainty as to the amount of time that would be required to complete the investigation and whether the product would have sufficient remaining shelf life or otherwise be saleable after the investigation was completed. In March 2013, we and Baxter mutually agreed to terminate our supply agreement for OFIRMEV. Under the termination agreement, we are required to remove our manufacturing equipment from Baxter’s facility within 180 days and pay Baxter for any pre-approved costs or expenses related to such removal. We incurred impairment charges of $7.7 million and a loss on the sale of equipment of $0.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2012 in relation to certain manufacturing assets involved with the manufacture of OFIRMEV under the terminated development and supply agreement with Baxter. Although we have not completed our investigation into the cause of the particulate matter discovered in the product manufactured by Baxter, our review of data for product manufactured by BMS Anagni has confirmed that no similar particulate material has been observed in any product manufactured there. However, any future recalls of OFIRMEV could negatively affect customer perceptions and reduce revenue from OFIRMEV, and could also result in unexpected costs for replacement product, investigational costs and the write down of inventory and equipment. Additionally, any termination or disruption of our relationship with BMS Anagni, our sole source for OFIRMEV, may materially harm our business and financial condition and adversely impact our commercialization and sales efforts with respect to the product. 24 Table of Contents If OFIRMEV does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited. The commercial success of OFIRMEV will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community and our ability to ensure that the drug is included in hospital formularies, and coverage and reimbursement for OFIRMEV by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of OFIRMEV, or any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire, will depend on a number of factors, including: • limitations or warnings contained in the product’s FDA-approved labeling; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for our product candidates, which could reduce the marketing impact of any superiority claims that we could make following FDA approval; and • potential advantages over, and availability of, alternative treatments, including, in the case of OFIRMEV, a number of products already used to treat pain or fever in the hospital setting. Our ability to effectively promote and sell OFIRMEV and any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire in the hospital marketplace will also depend on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a reasonable cost and achieve hospital formulary acceptance for the product and sell the product at a competitive price, as well as our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective buying power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital marketplace will also depend on our ability to effectively promote OFIRMEV and any other product to hospitals that are members of group purchasing organizations. We will also need to demonstrate acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, as well as relative convenience and ease of administration. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with OFIRMEV and any other product or product candidates we may license or acquire. If OFIRMEV, or any other product or product candidate that is approved, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits and risks of OFIRMEV or any other product or product candidate may require significant resources and may never be successful. We rely on third parties to perform many essential services for OFIRMEV and any other products that we commercialize, including services related to warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management, cash collection and adverse event reporting, and if such third parties fail to perform as expected or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our efforts to commercialize OFIRMEV or any other products may be significantly impacted and we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. We rely on third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of OFIRMEV, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. The services provided by these third parties include warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management and cash collection. As a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by one such service provider. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or if our products encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we have engaged third parties to perform various other services for us relating to adverse event reporting, safety database management, fulfillment of requests for medical information regarding OFIRMEV and related services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained or services performed by these third parties is insufficient, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. 25 Table of Contents We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for OFIRMEV or other products or product candidates we may license or acquire and may have to limit their commercialization. The use of OFIRMEV and any other products or product candidates we may license or acquire in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for OFIRMEV or other products or product candidates; • loss of revenues; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant distraction of our scientific and management personnel who may be involved in our efforts to defend against such claims; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to continue commercialization of OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates. Although we currently have commercial product liability coverage for OFIRMEV, which includes coverage for any clinical trials we may perform, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. Our commercial product liability insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We expect intense competition for OFIRMEV, and new products may emerge that provide different or better therapeutic alternatives for our targeted indications. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We will continue to face competition in our efforts to market and sell OFIRMEV from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render OFIRMEV obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render OFIRMEV obsolete or noncompetitive. OFIRMEV will compete with well-established products with similar indications. Competing injectable products available for the treatment of pain include opioids such as morphine, fentanyl, meperidine and hydromorphone, each of which is available generically from several manufacturers, and several of which are available as proprietary products using novel delivery systems. Ketorolac, an injectable non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, or NSAID, is also available generically in the U.S. from several manufacturers, and Caldolor (ibuprofen for injection), an NSAID, is available for the treatment of pain and fever in adults and children 17 years of age and older. Competing products available for the treatment of fever in the hospital setting include acetaminophen administered orally and rectally, aspirin and NSAIDs, which may be administered orally, 26 Table of Contents topically or intravenously. Additional products may be developed for the treatment of acute pain, including new injectable NSAIDs, novel opioids, new formulations of currently available opioids and NSAIDS, long-acting local anesthetics and new chemical entities as well as alternative delivery forms of various opioids and NSAIDs. Competitors may seek to develop alternative formulations of intravenous acetaminophen for our targeted indications that do not directly infringe our in-licensed patent rights. The commercial opportunity for OFIRMEV could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research development resources, including personnel and technology; • clinical trial experience; • regulatory experience; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution, and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to commercialize OFIRMEV. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, useful and less costly than ours and may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help commercialize OFIRMEV in Canada. We may require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our planned activities. We began generating revenue from the launch of OFIRMEV in January 2011, however, we expect our negative cash flow from operations to continue until we are able to generate significant revenues from sales of OFIRMEV. As a result, we may need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations as we implement our marketing strategies, maintain our sales force and commercial infrastructure and commercialize OFIRMEV; • purchase sufficient quantities of OFIRMEV from our contract manufacturers to meet customer demand or our minimum purchase obligations; • continue to fund the expansion of our contract manufacturers’ capacity to produce OFIRMEV in order to meet future demand for this product; • complete our ongoing efficacy, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of OFIRMEV in pediatric patients under two years of age, as required to comply with our post-commercialization commitment to the FDA; or • acquire or in-license additional products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit. Our funding requirements related to the commercialization of OFIRMEV may exceed our current projections as a result of many factors, including, but not limited to: • our sales of OFIRMEV may be lower than expected; • the costs associated with our efforts to sell, market and distribute OFIRMEV, including costs associated with maintaining our sales force and commercial infrastructure, may be greater than anticipated; 27 Table of Contents • we may incur unexpected costs in order to ensure a sufficient supply of OFIRMEV from our contract manufacturers in order to meet customer demand, including any replacement of product or write down of inventory related to any product recall or other quality issue, or we may be required to pay fees based on minimum purchase obligations; and • we may be required to file lawsuits to defend our patent rights or regulatory exclusivities from challenges by companies seeking to market generic versions of intravenous acetaminophen, such as our intellectual property litigation, including any such costs we may be required to expend if our licensors are unwilling or unable to do so. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from sales of OFIRMEV, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash and investment balances. We have engaged in various financing activities in the past. In May 2011, for example, we established a universal shelf registration statement to permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell up to $150.0 million of equity or debt securities. In November 2011, we undertook a public offering of common stock using our universal shelf registration statement that raised net proceeds of approximately $77.3 million. In addition, we have refinanced our $30.0 million secured credit facility with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation on various occasions, including most recently in December 2012. However, there can be no assurance in the future that we would be able to enter into similar financing arrangements or complete any securities offerings, including under our universal shelf registration statement, and to the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. We believe we have sufficient financial resources to fund our projected operating requirements, at a minimum, for the next twelve months. This estimate does not reflect any participation in strategic transactions. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources faster than we currently expect. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts for OFIRMEV, or we may not be able to adequately fund our intellectual property litigation, which could decrease sales of this product and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations. Although OFIRMEV has received regulatory approval from the FDA, it remains subject to substantial, ongoing regulatory requirements. OFIRMEV remains subject to ongoing FDA requirements with respect to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. The FDA has the authority to regulate the claims we make in marketing OFIRMEV to ensure that such claims are true, not misleading, supported by scientific evidence and consistent with the approved label for the drug. In addition, the discovery of previously unknown problems with OFIRMEV, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, may result in the imposition of additional restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. For example, as a condition of the approval of OFIRMEV, we are required to complete an efficacy, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of OFIRMEV in pediatric patients under two years of age, and to submit the final results of this clinical trial to the FDA. Depending on the outcome of this study, we may be unable to expand the indications for OFIRMEV or we may be required to include specific warnings or limitations on dosing this product, which could negatively impact our sales of OFIRMEV. Enrollment in this study began in the third quarter of 2012. We have implemented a comprehensive compliance program and related infrastructure, but we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and 28 Table of Contents regulations. If our operations in relation to OFIRMEV fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose consent decrees, which may include the imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; • impose fines other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • exclude us from participating in U.S. federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition to FDA restrictions, numerous other federal, state and local laws and regulations apply to the promotion and sale of pharmaceutical products, such as the federal anti-kickback statute and false claims laws and regulations. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. There are also federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback statute and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Further, the recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity can now be found guilty of fraud or false claims under PPACA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Possible 29 Table of Contents sanctions for violation of these anti-kickback laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. In addition, device and drug manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Manufacturers will be required to begin data collection on August 1, 2013 and report such data to CMS by March 31, 2014 and on the 90th day of every calendar year for the reporting period of the previous year. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any changes in these laws. Federal or state regulatory authorities may challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any state or federal regulatory review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, and such off-label uses by healthcare professionals are common. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market, require a recall or institute fines, or could result in disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and healthcare payor initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. In March 2010, the PPACA became law and made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the U.S. The PPACA includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies, some of which became effective immediately and others of which will be taking effect over the next several years. The PPACA seeks to expand health care coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The PPACA also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit, an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S., and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics. The PPACA also promotes programs that increase the federal government’s comparative effectiveness research, which may be used to evaluate the selection of medical services by clinicians and others. In addition, PPACA implements payment system reforms such as a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projections of such spending exceed a specified growth rate. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. The ATRA also reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals that may be adopted from time to time in the future, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce costs of health care could result in decreased net revenues from our pharmaceutical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. Although there is some uncertainty as to the exact extent of the requirements and definitive guidance has not yet been provided by the government, it is currently anticipated that data collection requirements will begin no earlier than January 1, 2013. In addition, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Compliance with the PPACA and state laws with similar provisions is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect in January 2015. Compliance with California and future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract 31 Table of Contents arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Managed care organizations are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some cases, imposing restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and costly, and we expect that it could take several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product and makes a decision with respect to coverage. For example, third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of OFIRMEV or any other product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products, or at all. We may never receive approval outside of the U.S. to commercialize OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates we may acquire. Our rights to OFIRMEV include Canada, as well as the U.S. In order to market OFIRMEV, and any other products or product candidates we may acquire, in Canada or other jurisdictions outside of the U.S., we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding non-clinical testing, manufacturing, clinical safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. For example, in July 2012, we filed a New Drug Submission for OFIRMEV with Health Canada which was accepted for review in August 2012. We are currently evaluating the commercial prospects and partnering opportunities for the product in Canada and anticipate that the product would not be approved by Canadian regulatory authorities for at least 18 months after this submission, if at all. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that OFIRMEV and any other products may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our products and have an adverse effect on product sales and potential royalties, and that any regulatory approvals we may obtain may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed or require us to perform costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Public concern regarding the safety of drug products such as OFIRMEV could result in new requirements from regulatory agencies to include unfavorable information in our labeling, or require us to undertake other activities that may entail additional costs. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, the FDA, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and the establishment of risk management programs that may, for example, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. For example, in January 2011, the FDA issued a press release and posted on its website a drug safety communication asking manufacturers of prescription drug products containing combinations of acetaminophen and opioid medications to limit the amount of acetaminophen to no more than 325 milligrams (mg) in each dosage unit (i.e. each tablet or caplet). In the announcement, the FDA also requested manufacturers to update labels for such products to include a boxed warning highlighting the potential for severe acetaminophen-induced liver injury and a warning highlighting the potential for allergic reactions. The boxed warning required for affected products reaffirms previous statements made by the FDA that most cases of liver injury are associated with acetaminophen doses that exceed 4,000 mg per day. While the FDA has indicated that this communication does not apply to 32 Table of Contents intravenous acetaminophen, it is possible that the FDA may apply similar labeling requirements to OFIRMEV in the future. We reaffirmed our dosing recommendations for OFIRMEV in July 2011 following a news release by a major manufacturer of over-the-counter acetaminophen products announcing its plan to lower the recommended maximum daily dose of some oral acetaminophen products in an effort to reduce the risk of accidental acetaminophen overdose among its customers in the over-the-counter setting. Also, the California “State’s Experts” acting under Proposition 65 have recommended a high priority for a review of acetaminophen by the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, which, depending on subsequent research and findings, could lead to the requirement for a warning statement to be added to the label for over-the-counter acetaminophen products that such products contain chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer. We believe that OFIRMEV, like other prescription products, would be exempt from this additional labeling requirement. However, any perception or concern that acetaminophen is unsafe could harm our ability to successfully commercialize and sell OFIRMEV, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, granted significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the law authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. It also significantly expands the federal government’s clinical trial registry and results databank, which we expect will result in significantly increased government oversight of clinical trials. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate these and other provisions of that law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny, particularly with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. If our hospital customers fail to receive adequate reimbursement from the government or third-party payors for OFIRMEV or any future products we may license or acquire, if any, or if hospitals choose to use therapies that are less expensive, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our anticipated sales of OFIRMEV or any future products will depend in part upon the reimbursement rates our customers receive for OFIRMEV. In particular, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for certain surgeries and other treatment therapies they perform. Because this amount may not be based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use therapies which are less expensive when compared to our products. In addition, some third-party payors, including government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers and commercial payors, are emphasizing the substitution of branded pharmaceuticals with less expensive generic equivalents. An increase in the sales of generic pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in revenues of branded pharmaceuticals. While there are no generic equivalents competing with OFIRMEV at this time, in the future we could face generic competition. OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if approved, will face competition from other therapies and drugs, as well as other routes of administration of acetaminophen, for these limited hospital financial resources. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to the satisfaction of hospitals, other target customers and their third-party payors. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective and accordingly, we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In some foreign markets, such as Canada, the government controls the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these 33 Table of Contents countries, pricing negotiated with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. In the U.S., we expect that there will be an increase in federal and state proposals to implement pricing controls for prescription drugs, and new legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our product candidates are approved for marketing or after our marketed products have been approved. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs. Legislative and regulatory actions under consideration in the U.S. include health care reform initiatives that could significantly alter the market for pharmaceuticals (such as private health insurance expansion, the creation of competing public health insurance plans, a variety of proposals that would reduce government expenditures for prescription drugs to help finance healthcare reform, or the eventual transition of the U.S. multiple payer system to a single payer system). Other actions under consideration include proposals for government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in government reimbursement, an accelerated approval process for “follow-on” biologics, legalization of commercial drug importation into the U.S., and involuntary approval of medicines for over-the-counter use. Such legislation could result in the exclusion of OFIRMEV and any other products or product candidates we may license or acquire from hospital formularies, or lower the prices we would receive for our products or product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of OFIRMEV or any other approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms, which would negatively impact our profitability. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to OFIRMEV from others, we could lose the ability to sell OFIRMEV. In March 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with BMS relating to OFIRMEV for the U.S. and Canada. Because we have in-licensed the rights to this product from a third party, if there is any dispute between us and our licensor regarding our rights under our license agreement, our ability to continue to sell this product may be adversely affected. Any uncured, material breach under our license agreement could result in our loss of exclusive rights to OFIRMEV and may lead to a complete termination of our related commercial efforts. If BMS breaches the underlying agreement under which we sublicense the rights to OFIRMEV, we could lose the ability to sell OFIRMEV. Our license for OFIRMEV is subject to the terms and conditions of a license from Pharmatop to BMS, under which BMS originally licensed the intellectual property rights covering OFIRMEV. If BMS materially breaches the terms or conditions of this underlying license from Pharmatop, and neither BMS nor we adequately cure that breach, or BMS and Pharmatop otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach by BMS or disputes with Pharmatop could result in a loss of, or other material adverse impact on, our rights under our license agreement with BMS. While we would expect to exercise all reasonable rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by BMS, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed by Pharmatop, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license from Pharmatop to BMS could result in our loss of exclusive rights to OFIRMEV and may lead to a complete termination of our commercial efforts for OFIRMEV. We may experience difficulties in managing the growth of our organization. As of March 1, 2013, we had approximately 206 employees. The commercial launch of OFIRMEV in January 2011 required us to substantially expand our managerial, commercial, financial and other personnel resources, particularly in sales and marketing positions. Additionally, beginning in November 2011, we implemented a reduction in force of 17 employees, or approximately 7% of our total work force at that time, primarily in our development and general and administrative areas. This action was taken in order to focus our resources on commercialization activities for OFIRMEV and to reduce programmatic costs not directly associated with such efforts. Despite these efforts, our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our commercially-focused organization, and we may not be able to retain or 34 Table of Contents recruit qualified personnel in the future due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses. The failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • effectively train and manage our employees, and establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support our organization; • ensure that our consultants and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results, and meet expected deadlines; • continue to carry out our own contractual obligations to our licensors and other third parties; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our commercialization goals. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and commercial, scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on the expertise of our senior management, particularly Theodore R. Schroeder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, William R. LaRue, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, and Scott A. Byrd, our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Schroeder, Mr. LaRue and Mr. Byrd, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. During the third quarter of 2012, our former Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer departed in connection with our current focus on commercialization, rather than new product development. Any attempt to develop new products in the future could be limited unless we were able to hire a suitable replacement. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and our operations may be set back. 35 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire or in-license products and if we do not successfully identify and acquire or in-license related products or product candidates or integrate them into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a pipeline of products and product candidates by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our focus on the hospital marketplace. As part of our efforts to acquire businesses or to in-license products, we conduct technical, business and legal due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in such transactions, which may include: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • difficulty or inability to secure financing to fund development activities for such acquired or in-licensed technologies in the current economic environment; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • effectiveness of the acquired business’s internal controls and procedures; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Additionally, in connection with any such acquisition or in-licensing transaction, we must estimate the value of the transaction by making certain assumptions about, among other things, likelihood of regulatory approval for unapproved products and the market potential for marketed products and/or product candidates. Ultimately, our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, we might not realize the intended advantages of the acquisition or in-licensing transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from the transactions we have consummated or may consummate in the future, the results of our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. It cannot be assured that, following an acquisition, we will achieve revenues, specific net income or loss levels that justify the acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings, or reduced losses, for the combined company in any future period. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to acquire any businesses, which would result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our growth strategy successfully. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. 36 Table of Contents Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturer must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturer’s activities and, to a lesser extent, our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of OFIRMEV and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturer are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering OFIRMEV are limited to a specific intravenous formulation of acetaminophen. As a result, our market opportunity for this product may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations of intravenous acetaminophen may be developed by competitors. The active ingredient in OFIRMEV is acetaminophen. Patent protection is not available for the acetaminophen molecule itself in the territories licensed to us, which include the U.S. and Canada. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as OFIRMEV so long as the competitors do not infringe any process or formulation patents that we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, Pharmatop. We are the exclusive licensee of two U.S. patents and two issued Canadian patents owned by Pharmatop, under BMS’s license to these patents from Pharmatop. U.S. Patent No. 6,028,222, or the ‘222 patent (Canadian patent number 2,233,924), covers the formulation of OFIRMEV, and this patent expires in August 2017. U.S. Patent No. 6,992,218, or the ‘218 patent (Canadian patent number 2,415,403), covers the process used to manufacture OFIRMEV, and this patent expires in June 2021. We plan to complete a pediatric clinical trial of OFIRMEV by August 2015 and, upon timely completion and the acceptance by the FDA of the data from this study, OFIRMEV will be eligible for an additional six months of marketing exclusivity in the U.S. We are also aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications directed to various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. For example, Injectapap, a liquid formulation of acetaminophen for intramuscular injection, was approved by the FDA for the reduction of fever in adults in March 1986, although it was subsequently withdrawn from the market by McNeil Pharmaceutical in July 1986. The number of patents and patent applications directed to products in the same field as OFIRMEV indicates that competitors have sought to develop and may seek to market competing formulations that may not be covered by our licensed patents and patent applications. The commercial opportunity for OFIRMEV could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations of acetaminophen outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. We are also aware of a number of third-party patents in the U.S. that claim methods of making acetaminophen. If a supplier of the API for OFIRMEV is found to infringe any of these method patents covering acetaminophen, our supply of the API could be delayed and we may be required to locate an alternative supplier. Four third-parties have challenged, and additional third parties may challenge, the patents covering OFIRMEV, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims. If a third party files an ANDA for a generic drug product containing acetaminophen and relies in whole or in part on studies conducted by or for us, the third party will be required to certify to the FDA that, in the opinion of that third party, the patent listed in the Orange Book for a branded product is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the third party’s generic drug product. A third party certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for OFIRMEV, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV patent certification. If the third party submits a Paragraph IV patent certification to the 37 Table of Contents FDA, a notice of the Paragraph IV patent certification must also be sent to us once the third-party’s ANDA is accepted for filing by the FDA. A lawsuit may then be initiated to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of notice of a Paragraph IV patent certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the patents, the entry of a settlement order stating that the patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant, or such shorter or longer period as the court may order. If a patent infringement lawsuit is not initiated within the required 45-day period, the third-party’s ANDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, no ANDA or NDA can receive final approval from the FDA before expiration of the regulatory exclusivity period for OFIRMEV in November 2013. In August 2011, we and Pharmatop filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Perrigo and Exela alleging that each has infringed the ‘222 and ‘218 patents, which are listed in the Orange Book for OFIRMEV, by filing their respective ANDA seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of OFIRMEV prior to the expiration of these patents. The lawsuit was filed within 45 days of receipt of the pertinent notice letters, thereby triggering a stay of FDA approval of the Perrigo ANDA and the Exela ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the ‘222 and ‘218 patents, the entry of a settlement order or consent decree stating that the ‘222 and ‘218 patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the case concerning infringement or validity that is favorable to Exela and/or Perrigo, or such shorter or longer period as the Court may order. Each of Perrigo and Exela filed an answer in the case that asserts, among other things, non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents, and has also filed counterclaims. A date for the bench trial in this case has been scheduled for May 2013. We settled with Perrigo and the case against Perrigo was dismissed in November 2012. Under the settlement and license agreements with Perrigo, Perrigo has been granted the exclusive right of first refusal to negotiate an agreement with us to market an authorized generic version of OFIRMEV in the U.S. in the event that we elect to launch an authorized generic version of the product. Additionally, we granted Perrigo the non-exclusive right to market a generic intravenous acetaminophen product in the U.S. under Perrigo’s ANDA after December 6, 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances. The FTC, or the DOJ could seek to challenge our settlement with Perrigo, or a competitor, customer or other third-party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlement with Perrigo. Any such challenge could be both expensive and time consuming and may render the settlement agreement unenforceable. In January 2013, we and Pharmatop filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California and the Northern District of Illinois against Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, or Fresenius. In February 2013, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California and the District of New Jersey against Sandoz, Inc., or Sandoz. In these cases, we have alleged that each of Fresenius and Sandoz has each infringed the ‘222 and ‘218 patents by filing their respective NDA, in the case of Fresenius, or ANDA, in the case of Sandoz, seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of OFIRMEV prior to the expiration of our patents for OFIRMEV. Both the Fresenius and Sandoz lawsuits were filed within 45 days of receipt of the respective notice letters, thereby triggering a stay of FDA approval of the Fresenius NDA and the Sandoz ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the ‘222 and ‘218 patents, the entry of a settlement order or consent decree stating that the ‘222 and ‘218 patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the case concerning infringement or validity that is favorable to Fresenius and/or Sandoz, or such shorter or longer period as the courts may order. Fresenius has filed an answer in the Southern District of California that asserts, among other things, non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents, and has also filed counterclaims. Sandoz has not yet filed an answer in either District. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights are often very complex in nature, may be very expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business, and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with our products. Any adverse outcome of such litigation could result in one or more generic 38 Table of Contents versions of OFIRMEV being launched before the expiration of the patents we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, Pharmatop, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of OFIRMEV and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to OFIRMEV to prevent the marketing of infringing generic products prior to the expiration of our patents. However, given the unpredictability inherent in litigation, we cannot predict or guarantee the outcome of these matters or any other litigation. Regardless of how these matters are ultimately resolved, these matters may be costly, time-consuming and distracting to our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately secure such rights would materially affect our business. Our commercial success depends on maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for OFIRMEV, as well as for any other products or product candidates that we may license or acquire, and successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. For example, in April 2012, Exela filed suit against David J. Kappos and the USPTO in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for declaratory judgment seeking a reversal of the USPTO’s decision not to act on a petition by Exela to vacate the USPTO’s April 2003 order reviving the international application for the ‘218 patent. The lawsuit followed the USPTO’s rejection of Exela’s petition to the USPTO filed in November 2011, which sought to vacate the April 23, 2003 order granting Pharmatop’s petition to revive the ‘218 patent. The USPTO determined that Exela lacks standing to seek such relief. Exela also seeks declaratory judgment that the USPTO’s rules and regulations that allow for revival of abandoned, international patent applications under the “intentional” standard are invalid, and similar relief in connection with one or more counterclaims it has filed in the Delaware litigation. Our motion to intervene in this lawsuit was granted in October 2012. In December 2012, the district court dismissed the case with prejudice as barred by the applicable statute of limitations. In February 2013, Exela appealed the court’s decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A decision by the Court of Appeals in favor of Exela could result in the invalidation of the ‘218 patent. Additionally, in September 2012, an unidentified third party filed with the USPTO a Request for Ex Parte Reexamination of the ‘222 patent. In December 2012, we received notice that the USPTO had granted the Request for Reexamination. The reexamination process is provided for by law and requires the USPTO to consider the scope and validity of the patent based on substantial new questions of patentability raised by a third party or the USPTO. Because we and Pharmatop believe that the scope and validity of the patent claims in this patent are appropriate and that the USPTO’s prior issuance of the patent was correct, we, in conjunction with Pharmatop, will vigorously defend this patent. We cannot predict whether we and Pharmatop ultimately will succeed in maintaining the scope and validity of the claims of this patent during reexamination. If the patent claims in this patent ultimately are narrowed during prosecution before the USPTO, the extent of the patent coverage afforded to OFIRMEV could be impaired, which could potentially harm our business and operating results. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. 39 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our products, product candidates or technologies; • it is possible that none of the pending patent applications licensed to us will result in issued patents; • the issued patents covering our products or product candidates may not provide a basis for commercially viable active products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their earliest effective filing date. Consequently, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications on our products or product candidates. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our products or product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect our drug market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our products or product candidates. Even if patents are issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our licensors, employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our licensors or we fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for OFIRMEV or any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. 40 Table of Contents We depend on our licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of our intellectual property and have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf, or whether any financial difficulties experienced by our licensors could result in their unwillingness or inability to secure, maintain and enforce patents protecting our intellectual property. We depend on our licensor, BMS, and its licensor, Pharmatop, to protect the proprietary rights covering OFIRMEV and we have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that BMS or Pharmatop devote on our behalf, or the priority they place on maintaining and enforcing our patent rights, and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. Pharmatop is under a contractual obligation to BMS to maintain the issued OFIRMEV patents in the U.S., and to diligently prosecute the patent applications and maintain any issued patents related to OFIRMEV in Canada. BMS has the opportunity to consult, review and comment on any patent office communications. We may not receive any patent from the applications in Canada, or if patents are issued they may be inadequate to protect our OFIRMEV product from competition. For a third-party challenge to the validity or enforceability of the OFIRMEV patents, we will have some ability to participate in either Pharmatop’s or BMS’ defense thereof. In the event that neither Pharmatop nor BMS elects to defend the third-party challenge, we may have the opportunity to defend it. BMS has the first right to prosecute a third-party infringement of the OFIRMEV patents relating to OFIRMEV, and Pharmatop has the second right. We may not have the ability to cooperate with BMS or Pharmatop in any such third-party infringement suits. In certain instances, we may be allowed to pursue a third-party infringement claim ourselves. It is possible that Pharmatop or BMS could take some action or fail to take some action that could harm the patents related to OFIRMEV. For example, if Pharmatop decides it no longer wants to maintain the OFIRMEV patents, to prosecute the patent applications related to OFIRMEV in Canada, or if Pharmatop or BMS decide not to defend the patents against third party challenges, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights. Moreover, Pharmatop or BMS may experience serious difficulties related to their respective businesses or financial stability, and may be unwilling or unable to continue to expend the financial resources required to maintain and prosecute these patents and patent applications, or to defend the patents against third party challenges. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for OFIRMEV, both in the U.S. and Canada. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend on our licensors to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. We may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and our licensors could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the U.S. or other countries. We or our licensors may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights. Our licensors are not obligated to defend or assist in our defense against third-party claims of infringement. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on defense of such third-party claims of infringement. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we or our licensors may not be successful in defending claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation would harm our business. Our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates that we may license or acquire depends upon our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, 41 Table of Contents exist in the general fields of pain treatment and cover the use of numerous compounds and formulations in our targeted markets. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we and our licensors may not be successful in defending intellectual property claims by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that OFIRMEV may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that OFIRMEV may inadvertently infringe. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their products or technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a competitor’s patent; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it would not be required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We began generating revenues from the commercialization of OFIRMEV in January 2011. Prior to that time, we focused primarily on in-licensing and developing OFIRMEV and our former product candidate, omiganan pentahydrochloride, with the goal of supporting regulatory approval for these product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in May 2004, including net losses of $81.0 million, $93.0 million and $56.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $447.7 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and our working capital. For example, while our development expenses have decreased since 2010 due to the completion of our clinical development program for OFIRMEV, we have incurred increased commercialization and marketing expenses since that time in connection with our launch of OFIRMEV. Further, since the launch of OFIRMEV, we have also incurred significant increased sales, marketing and outsourced manufacturing expenses. In addition, we are required to pay a minimum annual royalty under our license agreement for OFIRMEV and we have minimum 42 Table of Contents purchase obligations under our supply agreements with our contract manufacturers for OFIRMEV. If our sales of OFIRMEV are insufficient to meet our minimum annual royalty obligations, we will be required to make larger royalty payments than would have otherwise been required based on sales of OFIRMEV alone. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We currently have a limited history of revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. We began to market OFIRMEV in January 2011, and we had not generated any revenue prior to that time. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • effectively commercialize OFIRMEV; • manufacture commercial quantities of OFIRMEV at acceptable cost levels; • successfully manage our commercial organization and the supporting infrastructure required to successfully market and sell OFIRMEV; and • obtain regulatory approval for any other product or product candidates that we may license or acquire. We have incurred and anticipate continuing to incur significant costs associated with our efforts to commercialize, market and sell OFIRMEV. We also do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability for a period of time after generating material revenues, if ever. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in May 2004 and have only been conducting operations with respect to OFIRMEV since March 2006. Prior to 2011, our operations were limited to organizing and staffing our company, in-licensing and conducting product development activities, including clinical trials and manufacturing development activities, and preparing to commercialize OFIRMEV. In January 2011, we launched OFIRMEV and began generating revenues. The revenues we have generated from OFIRMEV have changed significantly since launch, and we anticipate that they will continue to change. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of marketing OFIRMEV or other pharmaceutical products. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our ability to successfully market and sell OFIRMEV; • our capacity to manage our commercial infrastructure and related expenses, including our hired sales and marketing personnel and costs incurred under our agreements with third parties for warehousing, distribution, cash collection and related commercial activities; • our execution of acquisition, in-licensing, co-promotion or similar agreements for new products and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs for any future product candidates and any further development costs associated with OFIRMEV, including our ongoing pediatric clinical trial; • costs associated with our ongoing intellectual property infringement lawsuits related to OFIRMEV, and any product liability or other litigation in which we may become involved; 43 Table of Contents • our ability to successfully defend the patents for the OFIRMEV and maintain our market exclusivity; • costs associated with any product recall or investigation into quality concerns; • our ability to successfully procure sufficient quantities of OFIRMEV and maintain adequate supply levels; • regulatory developments affecting OFIRMEV or the products or product candidates of our competitors; and • the level of underlying hospital demand for OFIRMEV and wholesalers’ buying patterns. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. For example, we undertook a public offering of our common stock in November 2010 through which we issued a total of 12.5 million shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $93.6 million, and in November 2011 we issued a total of 21.8 million shares of common stock in a public offering and raised net proceeds of $77.3 million. If we raise additional funds through alternative means such as licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. For example, we have refinanced our $30.0 million secured credit facility with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation on various occasions, including most recently in December 2012. This secured credit facility contains a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including minimum quarterly product revenue requirements, required financial reporting, limitations on the disposition of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. To secure our performance of our obligations under our current loan and security agreement, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property assets, to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the current loan and security agreement could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt and potential foreclosure on the assets pledged to secure the debt. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be 44 Table of Contents required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to periodically perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors are required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access, and the SEC has since issued final rules implementing “say on pay” measures. Our efforts to comply with corporate governance and related requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits may be limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2012, we had generated federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $369.7 million and $374.2 million, respectively. We also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $4.8 million and $3.2 million, respectively. Our net operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in 2024 for federal purposes and 2014 for state purposes if we have not used them prior to that time. Our federal tax credits will begin expiring in 2025 unless previously used and our state tax credits carryforward indefinitely. Additionally, under Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383, the annual use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits will be limited in the event a cumulative change in our ownership occurs within a three-year period. We expect to complete an analysis as to whether such a change of ownership has occurred in the next three months, and in such an event, we may be limited to the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits before they expire. In addition, certain states have suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. Currently, California allows companies to utilize their net operating losses, however, new legislation could suspend the use of those losses in the future. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, 45 Table of Contents the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a difficult residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and shifting expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, fluctuating business and consumer confidence and continued unemployment concerns, have precipitated significant economic uncertainty. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market changes may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of continuing market turbulence, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds, if necessary, and our stock price may decline. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Continued volatility in the overall capital markets could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense. The trading prices for our common stock during the 52 weeks ending December 31, 2012 ranged from a high of $5.00 to a low of $2.56. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • announcements concerning our operating results and the hospital formulary acceptance of OFIRMEV; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors or the economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • the failure of OFIRMEV to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments pertaining to the intellectual property lawsuits relating to OFIRMEV, including any future lawsuits, and any other challenges to our patents and other intellectual property rights; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • product recalls, quality concerns or manufacturing difficulties; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and concerns by investors that such fluctuations may occur in the future; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • health care reform legislation, including measures directed at controlling the pricing of pharmaceutical products and the amount of reimbursement received by our customers; • developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been 46 Table of Contents instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may now be able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. For example, we undertook public offerings of our common stock through which we issued totals of 21.8 million shares of common stock in November 2011 and 12.5 million shares of common stock in November 2010, and in May 2009, we completed the registration of approximately 18.1 million shares of our common stock in connection with a financing transaction completed in February 2009. As a result, all of the shares currently outstanding may generally be freely sold in the public market, subject to volume and other limitations applicable to our affiliates. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. Furthermore, any future equity financing we may undertake, or the expectation of such financing, could reduce the market price of our common stock over dilution concerns. In addition, certain of our officers have established, and other of our directors and executive officers may in the future establish, programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates may exercise control over stockholder voting matters in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates together controlled approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will collectively be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets, and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; 47 Table of Contents • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president or by a majority of the total number of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66-2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our current loan and security agreement with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation restricts our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 