D. Risk Factors Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in the following risk factors or elsewhere in this report, and other events that we have not predicted or assessed could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. If the events described below or other unpredicted events occur, then the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters. A change in U.S. government reimbursement for dialysis care could materially decrease our revenues and operating profit. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues resulted from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Legislative changes or changes in government reimbursement practice may affect the reimbursement rates for the services we provide, as well as the scope of Medicare and Medicaid coverage. A decrease in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates or covered services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, see Item 4B, "Information on the Company – Business Overview – Regulatory and Legal Matters – Reimbursement" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview." The utilization of ESAs could materially impact our revenue and operating profit. An interruption of supply or our inability to obtain satisfactory terms for ESAs could reduce our revenues and operating profit. Erythropoietin stimulating agents, or ESAs, are produced in the U.S. by Amgen Inc., under the brand names Epogen® (epoeitin alfa) and Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa). Under the Medicare end stage renal disease ("ESRD") prospective payment system ("ESRD PPS") effective January 1, 2011, payment for ESAs is generally included in the bundled rate; previously, it was reimbursed separately. Any of the following developments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 4 Table of Contents operations: (i) a reduction of the current overfill amount in ESA vials that we currently use (liquid medications, such as ESAs, typically include a small overfill amount to ensure that the fill volume can be extracted from the vial as administered to the patient), (ii) an interruption of supply of ESAs, or (iii) material increases in the utilization of or acquisition costs for ESAs. If we do not comply with the many governmental regulations applicable to our business, we could be excluded from government healthcare reimbursement programs or our authority to conduct business could be terminated, either of which would result in a material decrease in our revenue. Our operations in both our dialysis care business and our products business are subject to extensive governmental regulation in virtually every country in which we operate. We are also subject to other laws of general applicability, including antitrust laws. The applicable regulations, which differ from country to country, cover areas that include: •the quality, safety and efficacy of medical and pharmaceutical products and supplies; •the operation of manufacturing facilities, laboratories and dialysis clinics; •product labeling, advertising and other promotion; •accurate reporting and billing for government and third-party reimbursement; and •compensation of medical directors and other financial arrangements with physicians and other referral sources. Failure to comply with one or more of these laws or regulations may give rise to a number of legal consequences. These include, in particular, monetary and administrative penalties, increased costs for compliance with government orders, complete or partial exclusion from government reimbursement programs or complete or partial curtailment of our authority to conduct business. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company's medical devices and drug products are subject to detailed, rigorous and frequently changing regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), and numerous other national, supranational, federal and state authorities. These regulations include, among other things, regulations regarding product approvals, manufacturing practices, product labeling and promotion, quality control, quality assurance, and post-marketing safety reporting, including adverse event reporting and reporting of certain field actions. We cannot assure that all necessary regulatory approvals for new products or product improvements will be granted on a timely basis or at all. In addition, the Company's facilities and procedures and those of its suppliers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA and comparable regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may suspend, revoke, or adversely amend the authority necessary for manufacture, marketing, or sale of our products and those of our suppliers. The Company and its suppliers must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations, and if such compliance is not maintained, they could be subject to significant adverse administrative and judicial enforcement actions in the future. These possible enforcement actions could include warning letters, injunctions, civil penalties, seizures of the Company's products, and criminal prosecutions as well as dissemination of information to the public about such enforcement actions. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to the Company's business practices and operations; refunds; a total or partial shutdown of production while the alleged violation is remedied; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events, in combination or alone, could disrupt the Company's business and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of open FDA warning letters, see "Regulatory and Legal Matters – Regulatory Overview – Product Regulation – Medical Devices." We rely upon the Company's management structure, regulatory and legal resources and the effective operation of our compliance programs to direct, manage and monitor our operations to comply with government regulations. If employees were to deliberately, recklessly or inadvertently fail to adhere to these regulations, then our authority to conduct business could be terminated and our operations could be significantly curtailed. Any such terminations or reductions could materially reduce our sales. If we fail to identify in our diligence process or to promptly remediate any non-compliant business practices in companies that we acquire, we could be subject to penalties, claims for repayment or other sanctions. Any 5 Table of Contents such terminations or reductions could materially reduce our sales, with a resulting material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. By virtue of this regulatory environment, our business activities and practices are subject to extensive review by regulatory authorities and private parties, and continuing audits, subpoenas, other inquiries, claims and litigation relating to the Company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We may not always be aware that an inquiry or action has begun, particularly in the case of "qui tam" or "whistle blower" actions brought by private plaintiffs under the False Claims Act, which are initially filed under seal. We are the subject of a number of governmental inquiries and civil suits by the federal government and private plaintiffs. For information about certain of these pending investigations and lawsuits, see Note 20 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies – Other Litigation and Potential Exposures." We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to public officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate many facilities throughout the United States and other parts of the world. Our decentralized system has thousands of persons employed by many affiliated companies, and we rely on our management structure, regulatory and legal resources and effective operation of our compliance program to direct, manage and monitor the activities of these employees. Despite our training, oversight and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from deliberate, reckless or inadvertent acts of our employees or agents that contravene the Company's compliance policies or violate applicable laws. Our continued expansion, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The Company has received communications alleging certain conduct in certain countries outside the U.S. and Germany that may violate the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws. The Audit and Corporate Governance Committee of the Company's Supervisory Board is conducting an internal review with the assistance of independent counsel retained for such purpose. The Company voluntarily advised the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") that allegations have been made and of the Company's internal review. The Company's review and dialogue with the SEC and DOJ are ongoing. See "Item 15B. Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting" and Note 20 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies – Other Litigation and Potential Exposures." If our joint ventures violate the law, our business could be adversely affected. A number of the dialysis centers and vascular access centers we operate are owned, or managed, by joint ventures in which we hold a controlling interest and one or more hospitals, physicians or physician practice groups hold a minority interest. Physician owners, who are usually nephrologists, may also provide medical director services and physician owners may refer patients to those centers or other centers we own and operate or to other physicians who refer patients to those centers or other centers we own and operate. While we have structured our joint ventures to comply with many of the criteria for safe harbor protection under the U.S. Federal Anti- Kickback Statute, our investments in these joint venture arrangements do not satisfy all elements of such safe harbor. While we have established comprehensive compliance policies, procedures and programs to ensure ethical and compliant joint venture business operations, if one or more of our joint ventures were found to be in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute or the Stark Law, we could be required to restructure or terminate them. We also could be required to repay to Medicare amounts received by the joint ventures pursuant to any prohibited referrals, and we could be subject to criminal and monetary penalties and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other U.S. federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Proposals for healthcare reform, or relating to regulatory approvals, could decrease our revenues and operating profit. Many of the countries in which we operate have been considering proposals to modify their current healthcare systems to improve access to health care and to control costs. Policymakers in the U.S. and 6 Table of Contents elsewhere are also considering reforms that could change the methodology used to reimburse providers of health care services, including dialysis. We cannot predict whether and when these reform proposals will be adopted in countries in which we operate or what impact they might have on us. In the U.S., automatic across-the-board spending cuts over nine fiscal years (2013-2021), projected to total $1.2 trillion for all Federal government programs went into effect on March 1, 2013. Medicare payments to providers and suppliers are subject to these reductions, but these reductions are limited to one adjustment of no more than 2 percent through 2021. Any decrease in spending or other significant changes in state funding in countries in which we operate, particularly significant changes in the U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4, "Information on the Company – Business Overview – Regulatory and Legal Matters – Reimbursement" and "– Healthcare reform:" and Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview" for information regarding the impact of the ESRD PPS on our business, our efforts to mitigate some of its effects, and the anticipated effects of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("ACA") on our business, as well as additional information regarding the legislation and other matters discussed above. In addition, there may be legislative or regulatory proposals that could affect FDA procedures or decision-making for approving medical device or drug products. Any such legislation or regulations, if enacted or promulgated, could result in a delay or denial of regulatory approval for our products. If any of our products do not receive regulatory approval, or there is a delay in obtaining approval, this also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the United States, the ACA authorized state and federal health care exchanges to provide greater access to private health insurance coverage. These exchanges are scheduled to go into effect in 2014, and it is not yet known how the insurance coverage available through the exchanges will impact reimbursement for dialysis and vascular access services, if at all. There can be no assurance that we can achieve future price increases from private insurers and managed care organizations offering coverage through the federal and state health care exchanges that are comparable to those we have historically received. Any reductions in reimbursement from private insurers and managed care organizations could materially and adversely impact our operating results. Moreover, further changes in the U.S. healthcare reforms may be debated by Congress. Whether significant changes in policy will result is unknown. Changes, if any, that may result from these events could, depending on the details, have positive or adverse effects, possibly material, on our businesses and results of operations. Any significant healthcare reforms that substantially change the financing and regulation of the healthcare industry in countries in which we operate could reduce our sales and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business A significant portion of our North America Segment profits is dependent on the services we provide to a minority of our patients who are covered by private insurance. Government reimbursement programs generally pay less than private insurance. Medicare only pays us 80% of the Medicare allowable amount (the patient, Medicaid or secondary insurance being responsible for the remaining 20%), and Medicaid rates are comparable. As a result, the payments we receive from private payors generate a substantial portion of the profits we report. We estimate that Medicare and Medicaid are the primary payors for approximately 76% of the patients to whom we provide care in North America but that for 2013, we derived 53% of our North America Segment Dialysis Care net revenues (amounting to 32% of our worldwide revenue) from Medicare and Medicaid. Therefore, if the private payors who pay for the care of the other 24% of our North America segment's patients reduce their payments for our services, or if we experience a material shift in our revenue mix toward Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement, then our revenue, cash flow and earnings would materially decrease. Over the last few years, we have generally been able to implement modest annual price increases for private insurers and managed care organizations, but government reimbursement has remained flat or has been increased at rates below typical consumer price index ("CPI") increases. Under the ESRD PPS, Medicare payment rates are updated annually based on the CPI of relevant market inputs, less an adjustment to account for productivity improvements (0.4% for 2013). Medicare will implement further 7 Table of Contents reductions pursuant to the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, to account for reduced drug utilizations. In 2014, Medicare's base payment rate will be reduced by $8.16 to account for this effect, and U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") expects a total reduction, phased in over three to four years, of $29.93. See "