D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. You should carefully consider each of the following risks together with the other information in and incorporated into this Annual Report when evaluating the Company's business and its prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently considers immaterial may also impair the Company's business operations. If any of the following risks relating to our business and operations actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Shipping Industry The cyclical nature of the international dry bulk shipping industry may lead to decreases in charter rates, which may reduce Navios' revenue and earnings The shipping business, including the dry cargo market, is cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. For example, at various times during 2004, charter rates for the international dry bulk shipping industry reached historic highs. Navios anticipates that the future demand for its dry bulk carriers and dry bulk charter rates will be dependent upon continued demand for imported commodities, economic growth in China and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase, and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could decrease demand and growth in the shipping industry and thereby reduce revenue and earnings. Fluctuations, and the demand for vessels, in general, have been influenced by, among other factors: • global and regional economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, such as port congestion and canal closures; • weather and crop yields; • armed conflicts and terrorist activities; • political developments; and • embargoes and strikes. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could reduce demand for shipping services and decrease shipping rates, thus decreasing Navios' revenues and earnings Currently, China, Japan and other Pacific Asian economies are the main driving force behind the increase in seaborne dry bulk trades and the demand for dry bulk carriers. Demand from such economies has driven increased rates and vessel values. Conversely, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asian Pacific country, but particularly in China or Japan, may have an adverse effect on Navios' business, financial position, earnings and profitability, as well as Navios' future prospects, 5 Table of Contents by reducing such demand and the resultant rates. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Navios cannot assure that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience a decline from current levels in the future. Navios' results of operations, as well as its future prospects, would likely be adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries as such downturn would likely translate into reduced demand for shipping services and lower shipping rates industry wide and decrease revenue and earnings for Navios. Servicing debt could limit funds available for other purposes, such as working capital and the payment of dividends Navios will use cash to pay the principal and interest on its debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As a result of these obligations, Navios' current liabilities now exceed its current assets. This limits the working capital available to grow the business. Navios may need to take on additional debt as it expands the Navios fleet, which could increase its ratio of debt to equity. The need to service its debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to its stockholders, and its inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of its debt and foreclosure on the Navios’ owned vessels. The market values of Navios' vessels, which are at historically high levels, may decrease, which could cause it to breach covenants in its credit facility which could reduce earnings and revenues as a result of potential foreclosures Factors that influence vessel values include: • number of newbuilding deliveries; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • changes in global dry bulk commodity supply; • types and sizes of vessels; • development of and increase in use of other modes of transportation; • cost of vessel newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; and • prevailing level of charter rates. If the market values of Navios' owned vessels decrease, Navios may breach some of the covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to its indebtedness. If Navios does breach such covenants and is unable to remedy any relevant breach, its lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on the collateral, including Navios' vessels. Any loss of vessels would significantly decrease the ability of Navios to generate revenue and income. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions, or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, Navios would incur a loss that would reduce earnings. Navios may employ vessels on the spot market and thus expose itself to risk of losses based on short term decreases in shipping rates Navios periodically employs its vessels on a spot basis. The spot charter market is highly competitive and freight rates within this market are highly volatile, while longer-term time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. There can be no assurance that Navios will be successful in keeping its vessels fully employed in these short-term markets, or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable such vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in spot market charter rates or the inability of Navios to fully employ its vessels by taking advantage of the spot market would result in a reduction of the incremental revenue received from spot chartering and adversely affect results of operations, including Navios' profitability and cash flows, with the result that its ability to pay debt service and dividends could be impaired. 6 Table of Contents Maritime claimants could arrest Navios' vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages against such vessel. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of Navios' vessels could interrupt its cash flow and require it to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. Navios is not currently aware of the existence of any such maritime lien on its vessels. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any ‘‘associated’’ vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert ‘‘sister ship’’ liability against one vessel in Navios' fleet for claims relating to another ship in the fleet. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in earnings The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the United Nations Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Navios' owned fleet is currently enrolled with Lloyd's Register of Shipping, the American Bureau of Shipping, Nippon Kaiji Kiokai and Bereau Veritas. A vessel must undergo Annual Surveys, Intermediate Surveys and Special Surveys. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Navios' vessels are on Special Survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey, or Special Survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on Navios' revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until it was able to trade again. Navios is subject to environmental laws that could require significant expenditures both to maintain compliance with such laws and to pay for any uninsured environmental liabilities resulting from a spill or other environmental disaster The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state, and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, Navios cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws, and regulations, or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of Navios' vessels. Additional conventions, laws, and regulations may be adopted which could limit Navios' ability to do business or increase the cost of its doing business, which may materially adversely affect its operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. Navios is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, and certificates with respect to its operations. The operation of vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive ‘‘Safety Management System’’ that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe vessel operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available 7 Table of Contents insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of the vessels in Navios' owned fleet is ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. Although the United States is not a party thereto, many countries have ratified and follow the liability scheme adopted by the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, and set out in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, or the CLC, and the Convention for the Establishment of an International Fund for Oil Pollution of 1971, as amended. Under these conventions, a vessel's registered owner is strictly liable for pollution damage caused on the territorial waters of a contracting state by discharge of persistent oil, subject to certain defenses. Many of the countries that have ratified the CLC have increased the liability limits through a 1992 Protocol to the CLC. The liability limits in the countries that have ratified this Protocol are currently approximately $4 million, plus approximately $566 per gross registered ton above 5,000 gross tons, with an approximate maximum of $80.5 million per vessel and an exact amount tied to a unit of account which varies according to a basket of currencies. The right to limit liability is forfeited under the CLC where the spill is caused by the owner's actual fault or privity and, under the 1992 Protocol, where the spill is caused by the owner's intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to contracting states must provide evidence of insurance covering the limited liability of the owner. In jurisdictions where the CLC has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to the CLC. Navios currently maintains, for each of its owned vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of $1.0 billion per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic incident exceed this insurance coverage, it would severely hurt its cash flow and profitability and financial position. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States' territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are ‘‘responsible parties’’ and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel). The European Union has introduced and is considering legislation that will affect the operation of vessels and the liability of owners for oil pollution. It is difficult to predict what legislation, if any, may be promulgated by the European Union or any other country or authority. Any such legislation could require significant expenditures to continue to operate vessels and such expenses could negatively impact cash flows and net income. Navios is subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the US Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; 8 Table of Contents • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The US Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-US vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid International Ship Security Certificate (ISSC) that attests to the vessel's compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. Navios will implement the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures to ensure that its vessels attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on Navios' operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in revenues. Governments could requisition Navios' vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of revenues and earnings from such requisitioned vessels A government could requisition title or seize Navios' vessels during a war or national emergency. Requisition of title occurs when a government takes a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition Navios' vessels for hire, which would result in the government's taking control of a vessel and effectively becoming the charterer at a dictated charter rate. Requisition of one or more of Navios' vessels would have a substantial negative effect on Navios as Navios would potentially lose all revenues and earnings from the requisitioned vessels and permanently lose the vessels. Such losses might be partially offset if the requisitioning government compensated Navios for the requisition. The operation of ocean-going vessels entails the possibility of marine disasters including damage or destruction of the vessel due to accident, the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism, damage or destruction of cargo and similar events that may cause a loss of revenue from affected vessels and damage Navios' business reputation, which may in turn, lead to loss of business The operation of ocean-going vessels entails certain inherent risks that may adversely affect Navios' business and reputation, including: • damage or destruction of vessel due to marine disaster such as a collision; • the loss of a vessel due to piracy and terrorism; • cargo and property losses or damage as a result of the foregoing or less drastic causes such as human error, mechanical failure and bad weather; • environmental accidents as a result of the foregoing; and • business interruptions and delivery delays caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could substantially increase Navios' costs, as for example, the costs of replacing a vessel or cleaning up a spill or lower its revenues by taking vessels out of operation permanently or for periods of time. The involvement of Navios' vessels in a disaster or delays in delivery or damages or loss of cargo may harm its reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and cause it to lose business. Certain of Navios' directors, officers, and principal stockholders are affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those conducted by Navios which may compete directly with Navios causing such persons to have a conflict of interest Some of Navios' directors, officers and principal stockholders have an affiliation with entities that have similar business activities to those conducted by Navios. These other affiliations and business activities may give rise to certain conflicts of interest in the course of such individuals' affiliation with Navios. Although Navios does not prevent its directors, officers and principal stockholders from 9 Table of Contents having such affiliations, Navios uses its best efforts to cause such individuals to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in addressing such conflicts of interest. The officers and employee directors of Navios devote their full time and attention to the ongoing operations of Navios and the non-employee directors of Navios devote such time as is necessary and required to satisfy their duties as a director of a public company. Trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs) subject it to trading risks and Navios may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings Due to dry bulk shipping market volatility, success in this industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. For example, a long-term contract to charter a vessel might lock Navios into a profitable or unprofitable situation depending on the direction of freight rates over the term of the contract. Navios seeks to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in freight, tonnage and forward freight agreements, or FFAs. However, there is no assurance that Navios will be able at all times to successfully protect itself from volatility in the shipping market. Navios may not successfully mitigate its risks, leaving it exposed to unprofitable contracts and may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings. Navios is subject to certain credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause it to suffer losses on such contracts decreasing revenues and earnings Navios charters out its vessels to other parties, who pay Navios a daily rate of hire. Navios also enters into Contracts of Affreightment (COAs) pursuant to which Navios agrees to carry cargoes, typically for industrial customers, who export or import dry bulk cargoes. Additionally, Navios enters into FFAs. Navios also enters into spot market voyage contracts, where Navios is paid a rate per ton to carry a specified cargo from point A to point B. All of these contracts subject Navios to counterparty credit risk. As a result, Navios is subject to credit risks at various levels, including with charterers, cargo interests, or terminal customers. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, Navios could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues and earnings. Navios is subject to certain operating risks, including vessel breakdown or accident, that could result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels leading to a reduction in revenues and earnings Navios' exposure to operating risks of vessel breakdown and accidents mainly arises in the context of its 16 owned vessels. The rest of its core fleet is chartered-in under time charters and, as a result, most operating risks relating to these time chartered vessels reside with their head owners. If Navios pays hire on a chartered-in vessel at a lower rate than the rate of hire it receives from a sub-charterer to whom Navios has chartered out the vessel, a breakdown or loss of the vessel due to an operating risk suffered by the head owner will, in all likelihood, result in Navios' loss of the positive spread between the two rates of hire. Although Navios will have in force a time charterer's interest policy to cover it against the loss of such spread through the sinking or other similar loss of a chartered-in vessel, Navios cannot assure you that it will be covered under all circumstances. In addition, Navios is party to long-term contracts with four commodity houses, ADM, Multigranos, Louis Dreyfus and Gargill that will cover a substantial portion of its silo capacity in the Uruguayan terminal for the next several years, and the loss of or a material change to such contracts could have an adverse effect on Navios' financial condition and results of operations. Breakdowns or accidents involving Navios' vessels and losses relating to chartered vessels which are not covered by their insurance would result in a loss of revenue from the affected vessels leading to a reduction in revenues and earnings. Although Navios has longstanding relationships with certain Japanese shipowners who provide it access to very competitive contracts, Navios cannot assure you that it will always be able to maintain such relationships or that such contracts will continue to be available in the future Navios has long-standing relationships with certain Japanese shipowners that give it access to time charters that are currently at very competitive rates and which, in some cases, include options to 10 Table of Contents purchase the vessels at attractive prices relative to the current market. Although Navios has no indication that it may not have such access in the future, Navios cannot assure you that it will have such relationships indefinitely. In addition, there is no assurance that Japanese shipowners will generally make contracts available on the same or substantially similar terms in the future. Navios may require additional financing for exercise of vessel purchase options which could dilute existing stockholders In the future, Navios may be required to make substantial cash outlays to exercise options to acquire vessels and it will need additional financing to cover all or a portion of the purchase prices. Navios intends to cover the cost of exercising such options with new debt collateralized by the vessels to be acquired, but there can be no assurance that Navios will generate sufficient cash or that debt financing will be available. Moreover, the covenants in Navios' senior secured credit facility may make it more difficult to obtain such financing by imposing restrictions on what Navios can offer as collateral. Additional financings, if any, through the issuance of securities would dilute existing stockholders. Navios expects to grow its fleet which could increase expenses and losses Navios expects to grow its fleet, either through sales and purchases or the increase of the number of chartered vessels. The addition of these vessels to the Navios fleet will impose significant additional responsibilities on its management and staff, and may require it to increase the number of its personnel. Navios will also have to increase its customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. Navios' growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrating any acquired business successfully with Navios' existing operations; • enhancing its customer base; • managing its expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel, and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. Navios cannot give any assurance that it will be successful in executing its growth plans or that it will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. As Navios expands its business, Navios will need to improve its operations and financial systems, staff, and crew; if it cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, it may not effectively control its operations Navios' initial operating and financial systems may not be adequate as it implements its plan to expand, and its attempts to improve these systems may be ineffective. If Navios is unable to operate its financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as it expands its operations, it may be unable to effectively control and manage the substantially larger operation. Although it is impossible to predict what errors might occur as the result of inadequate controls, it is the case that it is harder to oversee a sizable operation than a small one and, accordingly, more likely that errors will occur as operations grow and that additional management infrastructure and systems will be required to attempt to avoid such errors. Vessels may suffer damage and Navios may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect its cash flow and financial condition If Navios' owned vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at Navios' cost at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Navios may 11 Table of Contents have to pay drydocking costs that insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, could decrease its revenues and earnings substantially, particularly if a number of vessels are damaged or drydocked at the same time. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by Navios' insurance Navios has insurance for its fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators, including hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which include environmental damage and pollution insurance). Navios can give no assurance that it will be adequately insured against all risks or that its insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Navios may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, Navios may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for its fleet. Navios may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which Navios receives indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Navios' insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although management believes are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. Navios' loan agreement contains restrictive covenants that may limit its liquidity and corporate activities Navios' loan agreements impose on Navios certain operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions may limit Navios' ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on its assets; • make investments; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures; • change the management of its vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreements Navios has relating to each vessel; and • sell any of Navios' vessels. Therefore, Navios will need to seek permission from its lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. Navios' lender's interests may be different from those of Navios, and Navios cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain its lender's permission when needed. This may prevent Navios from taking actions that are in its best interest. Navios' loan agreement imposes certain conditions on the payment of dividends Navios is party to a senior secured credit facility with an institutional lender, HSH Nordbank AG for the purpose to finance the Navios acquisition by ISE, the acquisition of four panamax vessels and of the acquisition of vessels through the exercise of options. The terms of the new credit facility contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require Navios, among other things, to maintain a certain solvency ratio and minimum equity amounts. Navios may not be permitted to pay dividends under the new credit facility in excess of certain amounts or if it is in default of any of these loan covenants. 12 Table of Contents Because Navios generates all of its revenues in US dollars but incurs a portion of its expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could cause it to suffer exchange rate losses thereby increasing expenses and reducing income Navios engages in worldwide commerce with a variety of entities. Although, its operations may expose it to certain levels of foreign currency risk, its transactions are predominantly US dollar denominated. Additionally, Navios’ wholly-owned Uruguayan subsidiary transacts a nominal amount of its operations in Uruguayan pesos, whereas Navios’ wholly-owned vessel subsidiaries and the vessel management subsidiary transact a nominal amount of their operations in Euros; however, all of the subsidiaries' primary cash flows are US dollar denominated. In 2005 approximately 6% of Navios expenses were incurred in currencies other than US dollars. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the date of each transaction. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the US dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing Navios' income. For example, in the year ended 2005, the value of the US dollar declined by approximately 13% as compared to the Euro. Navios, as part of its overall risk management policy, attempts to hedge these risks in exchange rate fluctuations. Navios may not always be successful in such hedging activities and, as a result, its operating results could suffer as a result of un-hedged losses incurred as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Navios' operations expose it to global political risks, such as wars and political instability, that may interfere with the operation of its vessels causing a decrease in revenues from such vessels Navios is an international company and primarily conducts its operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where Navios is engaged in business or where its vessels are registered will affect it. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Persian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and Navios' vessels may face higher risks of being attacked in the Middle East region and interruption of operations causing a decrease in revenues and earnings. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where Navios' vessels trade could affect its trade patterns and adversely affect its operations by causing delays in shipping on certain routes or making shipping impossible on such routes and thereby causing a decrease in revenues and earnings. Navios is incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law Navios' corporate affairs are governed by its amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware. Navios, and certain of its officers and directors, may be difficult to serve with process as Navios is incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and such persons may reside outside of the US Navios is a corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Several of our directors and officers are residents of Greece or other non-US jurisdictions. Substantial 13 Table of Contents portions of the assets of these persons and of Navios are located in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Greece or other non-US jurisdictions. Thus, it may not be possible for investors to affect service of process upon Navios, or its non-US directors or officers or to enforce any judgment obtained against these persons in US courts. Also, it may not be possible to enforce US securities laws or judgments obtained in US courts against these persons in a non-US jurisdiction. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ‘‘Exchange Act’’). As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the ﬁling with the Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents orauthorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selectivedisclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to ﬁle public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any ‘‘short-swing’’ trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Item 