ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this “Risk Factors” section describe material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. You should review carefully the risk factors listed below, as well as those factors listed in other documents we file with the SEC. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s current plans and assumptions. There are a number of important factors, many of which are beyond our control that could cause actual conditions, events or results to differ significantly from those described in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the highly cyclical nature of our business; • our level of indebtedness could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations; • a weakening of the global economy could adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources; • cyclical fluctuations in the price and supply of our raw materials could adversely affect our business; • we operate in highly competitive markets; • we are exposed to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; • we use derivatives to manage certain risks which has caused significant fluctuations in our operating results; 33 Table of Contents • we are subject to extensive environmental regulation and we could have environmental liabilities at our facilities; • our business is subject to risks associated with climate change and social government responses thereto; • our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to maintain adequate capital resources to provide for such requirements; • future acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business; • changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities; • Project Blue Mill might not generate the results we expect; • we are subject to risks related to our employees; • we rely on German federal and state government grants and guarantees and participate in European statutory programs; • we are dependent on key personnel; • we may experience material disruptions to our production; • if our long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record non-cash impairment that could have a material impact on our results of operations; • we may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; • our insurance coverage may not be adequate; • we rely on third parties for transportation services; and • the price of our common stock may be volatile. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as “may”, “will”, “believe”, “project”, “expect”, “estimate”, “assume”, “intend”, “design”, “anticipate”, “plan”, and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities law. You can find examples of these statements throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, including in the description of business in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. While these forward-looking statements reflect our best estimates when made, the following risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections. We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). You should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. As noted above, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, we may make forward-looking statements that involve the risk factors and other matters described in this document as well as other risk factors subsequently identified. 34 Table of Contents Our business is highly cyclical in nature. The pulp business is highly cyclical in nature and markets are characterized by periods of supply and demand imbalance, which in turn affects prices. Pulp markets are highly competitive and are sensitive to cyclical changes in the global economy, industry capacity and foreign exchange rates, all of which can have a significant influence on selling prices and our operating results. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time but generally reflect changes in macro-economic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Pulp is a commodity that is generally available from other producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition is generally based upon price, which is generally determined by supply relative to demand. Industry capacity can fluctuate as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle production capacity or permanently close mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which can prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply of our products can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable pricing trends. Demand for pulp has historically been determined primarily by general global macroeconomic conditions and has been closely tied to overall business activity. From 2006 to mid-2008, pulp prices steadily improved. However, the global economic crisis in the latter half of 2008 resulted in a sharp decline of pulp prices from a high of €900 per ADMT to €635 per ADMT at the end of 2008. Pulp prices began to increase in the second half of 2009 and continued to increase to record levels through June of 2010, before declining slightly in the fourth quarter of 2010. Pulp prices again rebounded to record levels in the first half of 2011 but declined sharply in the latter part of the year, primarily due to economic uncertainty in Europe and credit tightening in China. Economic uncertainty in Europe and China, respectively, impacted both demand and prices. In 2012, list prices were on average approximately 15% lower than 2011. At the end of 2012, list prices for NBSK pulp were approximately $810 in Europe, $870 in North America and $655 in China. Accordingly, prices for pulp are driven by many factors outside our control, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Because market conditions beyond our control determine the price for pulp, prices may fall below our cash production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our mills. Therefore, our profitability depends on managing our cost structure, particularly raw materials which represent a significant component of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. If the prices of our products decline, or if prices for our raw materials increase, or both, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately €711.4 million of indebtedness outstanding, of which €452.9 million relates to the Stendal Loan Facility. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our high debt levels may have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes or to fund future operations may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all; • a significant amount of our operating cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby diminishing funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and for other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to current and future adverse economic and industry conditions; • a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or increase in our expenses could make it more difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements, which could force us to modify our operations; 35 Table of Contents • our leveraged capital structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage by hindering our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions or by making us vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy in general; • causing us to offer debt or equity securities on terms that may not be favorable to us or our shareholders; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our business and our industry; and • our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal or interest due in respect of our indebtedness. The indenture governing our Senior Notes and our bank credit facilities contain restrictive covenants which impose operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions will affect, and in many respects will limit or prohibit, our ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or enter into sale/leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock, make investments or acquisitions, create liens and enter into mergers, consolidations or transactions with affiliates. The terms of our indebtedness also restrict our ability to sell certain assets, apply the proceeds of such sales and reinvest in our business. Certain of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including the Stendal Loan Facility, have covenants that require us to maintain prescribed financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in events of default and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend on our future financial and operating performance. Our performance, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions, as well as financial, business, legislative, regulatory, industry and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our future debt service and other obligations, in particular the Stendal Loan Facility, may depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement successfully our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our strategy fully or that the anticipated results of our strategy will be realized. A weakening of the global economy could adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Principally, as pulp demand has historically been determined by general global macroeconomic activities, demand and prices for our product have historically decreased substantially during economic slowdowns. Additionally, restricted credit availability restrains our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our products resulting in lower revenues. Depending on their severity and duration, the effects and consequences of a global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise capital, if needed, and otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. Cyclical fluctuations in the price and supply of our raw materials could adversely affect our business. Our main raw material is fiber in the form of wood chips and pulp logs. Such fiber is cyclical in terms of both price and supply. The cost of wood chips and pulp logs is primarily affected by the supply and demand for lumber. Demand for these raw materials is generally determined by the volume of pulp and paper products produced globally and regionally. Since 2006, generally higher energy prices and a focus on, and governmental initiatives related to, “green” or renewable energy have led to an increase in renewable energy projects in Europe, including Germany. Demand for wood residuals from such energy producers, combined with lower harvesting rates, has generally put upward pressure on prices for wood residuals such as wood chips in Germany and its neighboring countries. This has resulted in higher fiber costs for our German mills and such trend could continue to put further upward pressure on wood chip prices. 36 Table of Contents Similarly, North American sawmill activity declined significantly during the recession, reducing the supply of chips and availability of pulp logs to our Celgar mill. Additionally, North American energy producers are exploring the viability of renewable energy initiatives and governmental initiatives in this field are increasing, all of which could lead to higher demand for sawmill residual fiber, including chips. The cyclical nature of pricing for these raw materials represents a potential risk to our profit margins if pulp producers are unable to pass along price increases to their customers or we cannot offset such costs through higher prices for our surplus energy. We do not own any timberlands or have any long-term governmental timber concessions and we currently have few long-term fiber contracts at our German operations. Raw materials are available from a number of suppliers and we have not historically experienced material supply interruptions or substantial sustained price increases. However, our requirements have increased and may continue to do so as we expand capacity through capital projects or other efficiency measures at our mills. As a result, we may not be able to purchase sufficient quantities of these raw materials to meet our production requirements at prices acceptable to us during times of tight supply. In addition, the quantity, quality and price of fiber we receive could be affected as a result of industrial disputes, material curtailments or shut-down of operations by suppliers, government orders and legislation (including new taxes or tariffs), weather conditions, acts of God and other events beyond our control. An insufficient supply of fiber or reduction in the quality of fiber we receive would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition to the supply of wood fiber, we are dependent on the supply of certain chemicals and other inputs used in our production facilities. Any disruption in the supply of these chemicals or other inputs could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. Any material increase in the cost of these chemicals or other inputs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We operate in highly competitive markets. We sell our pulp globally, with a large percentage sold in Europe, North America and Asia. The markets for pulp are highly competitive. A number of other global companies compete in each of these markets and no company holds a dominant position. Our pulp is considered a commodity because many companies produce similar and largely standardized products. As a result, the primary basis for competition in our markets has been price. Many of our competitors have greater resources and lower leverage than we do and may be able to adapt more quickly to industry or market changes or devote greater resources to the sale of products than we can. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be competitive in the future. Prices for our products are affected by many factors outside of our control and we have no influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Our profitability with respect to these products depends, in part, on managing our costs, particularly raw material and energy costs which represent significant components of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. The global pulp market has historically been characterized by considerable swings in prices which have and will result in variability in our earnings. Prices are typically denominated in U.S. dollars. We are exposed to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations. The majority of our sales are in products quoted in U.S. dollars while most of our operating costs and expenses, other than those of the Celgar mill, are incurred in Euros. In addition, all of the products sold by the Celgar mill are quoted in U.S. dollars and the Celgar mill costs are primarily incurred in Canadian dollars. Our results of operations and financial condition are reported in Euros. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected by a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and to the Canadian dollar. Such shifts in currencies relative to the Euro and the Canadian dollar reduce our operating margins and the cash flow available to fund our operations and to service our debt. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 37 Table of Contents In 2002, Stendal entered into variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps to fix interest payments under the Stendal Loan Facility, which has kept Stendal from benefiting from the general decline in interest rates that ensued. These derivatives are marked to market at the end of each reporting period and all unrealized gains and losses are recognized as earnings or losses for the relevant reporting periods. We use derivatives to manage certain risk which has caused significant fluctuations in our operating results. We use derivative instruments to limit our exposure to interest rate and pulp price fluctuations. Concurrently with entering into the Stendal financing, Stendal entered into variable-to-fixed rate interest swaps for the full term of our Stendal Loan Facility to manage its interest rate risk exposure with respect to the full principal amount of this facility. Because we effectively fixed the rate on our Stendal Loan Facility, the value of our derivative position moves inversely to interest rates. We have also recently entered into fixed price pulp swap contracts with a bank. We record unrealized gains or losses on our derivative instruments when they are marked to market at the end of each reporting period and realized gains or losses on them when they are settled. These unrealized and realized gains and losses can materially impact our operating results for any reporting period. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize are not effective, we may incur losses which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The purpose of our derivative activity may also be considered speculative in nature; we do not use these instruments with respect to any pre-set percentage of revenues or other formula, but either to augment our potential gains or reduce our potential losses depending on our perception of future economic events and developments. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and we could have environmental liabilities at our facilities. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws as well as permits, guidelines and policies. These laws, permits, guidelines and policies govern, among other things: • unlawful discharges to land, air, water and sewers; • waste collection, storage, transportation and disposal; • hazardous waste; • dangerous goods and hazardous materials and the collection, storage, transportation and disposal of such substances; • the clean-up of unlawful discharges; • land use planning; • municipal zoning; and • employee health and safety. In addition, as a result of our operations, we may be subject to remediation, clean-up or other administrative orders or amendments to our operating permits, and we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings or inquiries. Future orders, proceedings or inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and land use laws and regulations are constantly changing. New regulations or the increased enforcement of existing laws could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, compliance with regulatory requirements is expensive, at times requiring the replacement, enhancement or modification of equipment, facilities or operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our profitability by offsetting any increased costs of complying with future regulatory requirements. 38 Table of Contents We are subject to liability for environmental damage at the facilities that we own or operate, including damage to neighboring landowners, residents or employees, particularly as a result of the contamination of soil, groundwater or surface water and especially drinking water. The costs of such liabilities can be substantial. Our potential liability may include damages resulting from conditions existing before we purchased or operated these facilities. We may also be subject to liability for any offsite environmental contamination caused by pollutants or hazardous substances that we or our predecessors arranged to transport, treat or dispose of at other locations. In addition, we may be held legally responsible for liabilities as a successor owner of businesses that we acquire or have acquired. Except for Stendal, our facilities have been operating for decades and we have not done invasive testing to determine whether or to what extent environmental contamination exists. As a result, these businesses may have liabilities for conditions that we discover or that become apparent, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners. Because of the limited availability of insurance coverage for environmental liability, any substantial liability for environmental damage could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant capital expenditures. We may be unable to generate sufficient funds or access other sources of capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. Our business is subject to risks associated with climate change and social and government responses thereto. Currently, there are differing scientific studies and opinions relating to the severity, extent and speed at which climate change is or may be occurring around the world. As a result, we are currently unable to identify and predict all of the specific consequences of climate change on our business and operations. To date, the potential and/or perceived effects of climate change and social and government responses to it have created both opportunities, such as enhanced sales of surplus “green” energy, and risks for our business. While all of the specific consequences from climate change are not yet predictable, we are subject to risks that government and social focus on and demand for “carbon neutral” or “green” energy will create greater demand for the wood residuals or fiber that is consumed by our pulp mills as part of their production process. In addition, governmental initiatives or legislation may also increase both the demand and prices for wood residuals. As governments pursue green energy initiatives, they may implement financial, tax, pricing or other legislated incentives for renewable energy producers that “cannibalize” or materially adversely affect fiber supplies for existing traditional users, such as lumber and pulp and paper producers. Such additional demand for wood residuals and/or governmental initiatives may materially increase the competition and prices for wood residuals over time. This could increase our fiber costs and/or restrict our ability to acquire fiber at competitive prices or at all during times of shortages. If our fiber costs increase and we cannot pass on these costs to our customers or offset them through higher prices for our sales of surplus energy, it will negatively affect our operating margins, results of operations and financial position. If we cannot obtain the fiber required to operate our mills, we may have to curtail and/or shut down production. This could have a material adverse effect on operations, financial results and financial position. Other potential risks to our business from climate change include: • a greater susceptibility of northern softwood forest to disease, fire and insect infestation, which could diminish fiber availability; • the disruption of transportation systems and power supply lines due to more severe storms; • the loss of water transportation for logs and our finished goods inventories due to lower water levels; • decreases in quantity and quality of processed water for our mill operations; • the loss of northern softwood boreal forests in areas in sufficient proximity to our mills to competitively acquire fiber; and 39 Table of Contents • lower harvest levels decreasing the supply of harvestable timber and, as a consequence, wood residuals. The occurrence of some or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or financial results. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to maintain adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our business is capital intensive and requires that we regularly incur capital expenditures to maintain our equipment, improve efficiencies and, as a result of changes to environmental regulations that require capital expenditures, bring our operations into compliance with such regulations. In addition, our senior management and board of directors may approve projects in the future that will require significant capital expenditures. Increased capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. Recent global credit conditions and the downturn in the global economy have resulted in a significant decline in the credit markets and the overall availability of credit. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our operations and impair our ability to raise additional capital. If this occurs, we may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as may be required from time to time, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. An inability to make required capital expenditures in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. In order to grow our business, we may seek to acquire additional assets or companies. Our ability to pursue selective and accretive acquisitions will be dependent on management’s ability to identify, acquire, and develop suitable acquisition targets in both new and existing markets, but, in certain circumstances, acceptable acquisition targets might not be available. In pursuing acquisition and investment opportunities, we face competition from other companies having similar growth strategies, many of which may have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for these acquisitions or investment targets could result in increased acquisition or investment prices, higher risks and a diminished pool of businesses or assets available for acquisition. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the costs of integrating acquired businesses (including restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions, as well as other acquisition costs, such as accounting fees, legal fees and investment banking fees) could significantly impact our operating results. Although we perform diligence on the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses. We may not be able to ascertain the value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses and their operations until we assume operating control of the assets and operations of these businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of risks, including: • problems with the effective integration of operations; • inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; • increased operating costs; • exposure to substantial unanticipated liabilities; and • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. 40 Table of Contents In addition, geographic and other expansions, acquisitions or joint ventures may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading could limit our access to the credit markets, increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Project Blue Mill may not generate the results or benefits we expect. Project Blue Mill is subject to customary risks and uncertainties inherent for large capital projects which could result in the project not completing on schedule or as budgeted. The Stendal mill could experience operating difficulties or delays during the start-up period when the new 40 MW turbine is being ramped up. Project Blue Mill may not increase the Stendal mill’s pulp production and energy generating capacity to the levels we had planned. Cost overruns, equipment breakdowns or failures to perform to design specifications could have a material adverse effect on our Stendal mill’s results of operations and financial performance. We are subject to risks related to our employees. The majority of our employees are unionized and we have collective agreements in place with our employees at all of our mills. Although we have not experienced any work stoppages in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate acceptable collective agreements or other satisfactory arrangements with our employees upon the expiration of our collective agreements. This could result in a strike or work stoppage by the affected workers. The registration or renewal of the collective agreements or the outcome of our wage negotiations could result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. Accordingly, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher on-going labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We rely on government grants and guarantees and participate in European statutory programs. We currently benefit from a subsidized capital expenditure program and lower cost of financing as a result of German federal and state government grants and guarantees at our Stendal mill. Should either the German federal or state governments be prohibited from honoring legislative grants and guarantees at Stendal, or should we be required to repay any such legislative grants, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Since 2005, our German mills have benefitted from sales of emission allowances under the EU ETS. As a result of our Rosenthal and Stendal mills’ eligibility for special tariffs under the Renewable Energy Act, the amount of emissions allowances granted to our German mills under the EU ETS has been reduced. Additionally, all such German legislation is subject to amendment or change which could adversely affect the eligibility of our Rosenthal and Stendal mills to participate in this statutory program and/or the tariffs paid thereunder. As a result we cannot predict with any certainty the amount of future sales of surplus energy we may be able to generate. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends, to a large extent, on the efforts and abilities of our executive and senior mill operating officers. Such officers are industry professionals many of whom have operated through multiple business cycles. Our officers play an integral role in, among other things: • sales and marketing; 41 Table of Contents • reducing operating costs; • identifying capital projects which provide a high rate of return; and • prioritizing expenditures and maintaining employee relations. The loss of one or more of our officers could make us less competitive in these areas which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not maintain any key person life insurance for any of our executive or senior mill operating officers. We may experience material disruptions to our production. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our pulp and energy sales and/or negatively impact our results of operations. Any of our mills could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; • equipment failure; • employee errors or failures; • design error or employee or contractor error; • chemical spill or release; • explosion of a boiler; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railway tracks, tunnels, canals and ports; • fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural catastrophes; • prolonged supply disruption of major inputs; • labor difficulties; and • other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If any of our facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements would be impaired and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record non-cash impairment charges that could have a material impact on our results of operations. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Should the markets for our products deteriorate or should we decide to invest capital differently or should other cash flow assumptions change, it is possible that we will be required to record non-cash impairment charges in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural 42 Table of Contents disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage or operate our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We have obtained insurance coverage that we believe would ordinarily be maintained by an operator of facilities similar to our mills. Our insurance is subject to various limits and exclusions. Damage or destruction to our facilities could result in claims that are excluded by, or exceed the limits of, our insurance coverage. Additionally, the weak global and financial markets have also reduced the availability and extent of credit insurance for our customers. If we cannot obtain adequate credit insurance for our customers, we may be forced to amend or curtail our planned operations which could negatively impact our sales revenues, results of operations and financial position. We rely on third parties for transportation services. Our business primarily relies upon third parties for the transportation of pulp to our customers, as well as for the delivery of our raw materials to our mills. Our pulp and raw materials are principally transported by truck, barge, rail and sea-going vessels, all of which are highly regulated. Increases in transportation rates can also materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if our transportation providers fail to deliver our pulp in a timely manner, it could negatively impact our customer relationships and we may be unable to sell it at full value. If our transportation providers fail to deliver our raw materials in a timely fashion, we may be unable to manufacture pulp in response to customer orders. Also, if any of our transportation providers were to cease operations, we may be unable to replace them at a reasonable cost. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors’ operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, capacity changes, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • our growth rate and our competitors’ growth rates; • the financial market and general economic conditions; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or the forest products industry generally or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; • sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • changes in accounting principles. In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in the forest products industry that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities litigation brought against them. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could result in substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 43 Table of Contents 