Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the more detailed descriptions of our business elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the following: Economic trends that affect the automotive retail industry or the indirect automotive financing industry may have a negative effect on our business. Economic trends that negatively affect the automotive retail industry or the indirect automotive financing industry may adversely affect our business by further reducing the amount of indirect automobile financing transactions that we earn revenue on, the number of financing source or automotive dealer customers that subscribe to our products and services or money that our customers spend on our products and services. Purchases of new automobiles are typically discretionary for consumers and have been, and may continue to be, affected by negative trends in the economy, including the cost of energy and gasoline, the availability and cost of credit, the declining residential and commercial real estate markets, reductions in business and consumer confidence, stock market volatility and increased unemployment. A reduction in the number of automobiles purchased by consumers could continue to adversely affect our financing source and dealer customers and lead to a reduction in transaction volumes and in spending by these customers on our subscription products and services. New car sales declined to a ten year low in 2008 and are projected to further decline during 2009. Additionally, a certain number of our financing source customers are dependent on continued access to the capital markets, which have contracted as of late, in order to fund their lending activities. These negative trends may result in our financing sources further reducing the number of automobile dealers that they service or the number of contracts that they make which could result in a reduction in the number of credit applications that are processed through our network. Additionally, due to the economic downturn, there has been continued automotive dealer consolidation and the number of franchised automotive dealers declined in 2008 and is projected to further decline in 2009. A bankruptcy filing by a major automobile manufacturer would further accelerate this consolidation trend. To the extent that these dealers have subscription products, the consolidation will result in cancellation of those products, Further, a reduction in the number of automotive dealers reduces the number of opportunities we have to sell our subscription products. Additionally, dealers who close their businesses may choose to not pay those amounts owed to us, resulting in an increase in our bad debt. Any such reductions in transactions or subscriptions or an increase in our bad debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to continue to compete effectively in our industry. Competition in the automotive retail technology industry is intense. The indirect automotive retail finance industry is highly fragmented and is served by a variety of entities, including DMS providers, web-based automotive finance credit application processors, the proprietary credit application processing systems of the financing source affiliates of automobile manufacturers, automotive retail sales desking providers and vehicle configuration providers. DealerTrack also competes with warranty and insurance providers, as well as software providers, among others, in the market for DMS, menu-selling products and services, compliance products and inventory analytics. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors also have longstanding relationships with dealers and may offer dealers other products and services that we do not provide. As a result, these companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can to ours. We expect the market to continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, possibly involving alternative technologies that are more sophisticated and cost-effective than our technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face will not materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may face increased competition from AppOne, CUDL, Finance Express, Open Dealer Exchange and RouteOne. ADP, Inc. and Reynolds and Reynolds, the two leading providers of DMS, on January 21, 2009 announced they have recently formed Open Dealer Exchange as a joint venture to compete with our online portal application business. Open Dealer Exchange plans to leverage its owners’ penetration of the DMS space to better integrate the loan origination process into the dealer’s transactional, point-of-sale system, thereby giving them a competitive advantage. Additionally, our network of financing sources does not include the captive financing sources affiliated with Chrysler LLC, Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation or Toyota Motor Corporation, which have formed RouteOne to operate as a direct competitor of ours to serve their respective franchised dealers. RouteOne has the ability to offer its dealers access to captive or other financing sources that are not in our network. RouteOne was launched in November 2003, and officially re-launched in July 2004. A significant number of independent financing sources, including many of the independent financing sources in our network, are participating on the RouteOne credit application processing and routing portal. If either Open Dealer Exchange or RouteOne increases the number of independent financing sources on its credit application processing and routing portal and/or offers products and services that better address the needs of our customers or offer our customers a lower-cost alternative, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a substantial amount of our current customers migrate from our network to Open Dealer Exchange or RouteOne, our ability to sell additional products and services to, or earn transaction services revenue from, these customers could diminish. We believe that both Open Dealer Exchange and RouteOne have repeatedly approached certain of our largest financing source customers seeking to have them join their credit application processing and routing portal. In addition, CU Direct Corporation, through its CUDL portal, has directly targeted credit unions, which comprise a large number of our financing source customers. Finance Express and AppOne have targeted the independent dealer channel. Some vendors of software products used by automotive dealers, including certain of our competitors, are designing their software and using financial or other incentives to make it more difficult for our customers to use our products and services. Currently, some software vendors, including some of our competitors, have designed their software systems in order to make it difficult to integrate with third-party products and services such as ours and others have announced their intention to do so. Some software vendors also use financial or other incentives to encourage their customers to purchase such vendors’ products and services. These obstacles could make it more difficult for us to compete with these vendors and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we have agreements in place with various third-party software providers to facilitate integration 15 Table of Contents between their software and our network, and we cannot assure you that each of these agreements will remain in place or that during the terms of these agreements these third parties will not increase the cost or level of difficulty in maintaining integration with their software. Certain of these agreements are currently in a wind-down period and while we continue to negotiate with these providers, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into a new agreement once the wind-down period ends. Additionally, we integrate certain of our solutions and services with other third parties’ software programs. These third parties may design or utilize their software in a manner that makes it more difficult for us to continue to integrate our solutions and services in the same manner, or at all. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and network may be subject to security breaches, interruptions, failures and/or other errors or may be harmed by other events beyond our control. Our systems may be subject to security breaches. Our success depends on the confidence of dealers, financing sources, the major credit reporting agencies and our other network participants in our ability to transmit confidential information securely over the Internet and operate our computer systems and operations without significant disruption or failure. We transmit substantial amounts of confidential information, including non-public personal information, over the Internet. Moreover, even if our security measures are adequate, concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and commercial online services, which may be heightened by any well-publicized compromise of security, may deter customers from using our products and services. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to confidential information, our network may be perceived as not being secure and our customers may curtail or stop using our network or other systems. Any failure by, or lack of confidence in, our secure online products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our focus on Internet security, we may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the transmission of communications among our network participants. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used by our products and services to protect certain data contained in our databases and the information being transferred. Although we generally limit warranties and liabilities relating to security in our customer contracts, third parties may seek to hold us liable for any losses suffered as a result of unauthorized access to their confidential information or non-public personal information. We may not have limited our warranties and liabilities sufficiently or have adequate insurance to cover these losses. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate the problems caused. Our security measures may not be sufficient to prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our network may be vulnerable to interruptions or failures. From time to time, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, network slowdowns and interruptions. These network slowdowns and interruptions may interfere with our ability to do business. Although we regularly back up data and take other measures to protect against data loss and system failures, there is still risk that we may lose critical data or experience network failures. Such failures or disruptions may result in lost revenue opportunities for our customers, which could result in litigation against us or a loss of customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Undetected errors in our software may harm our operations. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Our products and services are integrated with products and systems developed by third parties. Complex third-party software programs may contain undetected errors, defects 16 Table of Contents or bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. It is possible that errors, defects or bugs will be found in our existing or future products and services or third-party products upon which our products and services are dependent, with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Our systems may be harmed by events beyond our control. Our computer systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, such as fires, floods and hurricanes, power outages, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, network service outages and disruptions, “denial of service” attacks, computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage and other similar events beyond our control. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our facilities in the New York metropolitan area or at any third-party facility we utilize, such as our disaster recovery center in Waltham, Massachusetts, could cause interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data or could render us unable to provide our products and services. In addition, the failure of a third-party facility to provide the data communications capacity required by us, as a result of human error, bankruptcy, natural disaster or other operational disruption, could cause interruptions to our computer systems and operations. The occurrence of any or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could adversely affect our operations. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations depend on our ability to execute our business strategy, which includes the following key elements: • selling additional products and services to our existing customers; • expanding our customer base; • expanding our offerings; and • pursuing acquisitions and strategic alliances. We may not succeed in implementing a portion or all of our business strategy and, even if we do succeed, our strategy may not have the favorable impact on operations that we anticipate. Our success depends on our ability to leverage our distribution channel and value proposition for dealers, financing sources and other service and information providers, offer a broad array of solutions, provide convenient, high-quality products and services, maintain our technological position and implement other elements of our business strategy. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully avail ourselves of the market opportunity for our products and services. If we are unable to adequately implement our business strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our revenue, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in our stock price. Our revenue, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. These variations are due to several factors related to the number of transactions we process and to the number of subscriptions to our products and services, including: • the number of active lender to dealer relationships in the DealerTrack Network; • the volume of new and used automobiles financed or leased by our participating financing source customers; • the timing, size and nature of our subscriptions and any cancellations thereof; 17 Table of Contents • automobile manufacturers or their captive financing sources offering special incentive programs such as discount pricing or low cost financing; • the timing of acquisitions or divestitures of businesses, products and services; • unpredictable sales cycles; • product and price competition regarding our products and services and those of our participating financing sources; • changes in our operating expenses; • the timing of introduction and market acceptance of new products, services or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • foreign currency fluctuations; • personnel changes; and • fluctuations in economic and financial market conditions. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. We cannot assure you that future revenue and results of operations will not vary substantially from quarter to quarter. It is also possible that in future quarters, our results of operations will be below the expectations of equity research analysts, investors or our announced guidance. In any of these cases, the price of our stock could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to develop and bring products and services in development and new products and services to market in a timely manner. Our success depends in part upon our ability to bring to market the products and services that we have in development and offer new products and services that meet changing customer needs. The time, expense and effort associated with developing and offering these new products and services may be greater than anticipated. The length of the development cycle varies depending on the nature and complexity of the product, the availability of development, product management and other internal resources, and the role, if any, of strategic partners. If we are unable to develop and bring additional products and services to market in a timely manner, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to offer these additional products and services, which could also materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject, directly and indirectly, to extensive and complex federal and state regulation and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations may adversely affect our business. The indirect automotive financing and automotive retail industries are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. We are directly and indirectly subject to various laws and regulations. Federal laws and regulations governing privacy and security of consumer information generally apply in the context of our business to our clients and to us as a service provider that certain regulations obligate our clients to monitor. These include the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLB Act”) and regulations implementing its information safeguarding requirements, the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards, the Interagency Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Customer Information and Customer Notice, the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, and the Federal Trade Commission’s Privacy Rule, Safeguards Rule, Consumer Report Information Disposal Rule, and “Red Flags Rule,” as well as the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). If we, or a financing source or dealer discloses or uses consumer information provided through our system in violation of these or other laws, or engage in other prohibited conduct, we may be subject to claims or enforcement actions by state or federal regulators. We cannot predict whether such claims or enforcement actions will arise or the extent to which, if at all, we may be held liable. Such claims or enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents A majority of states have passed, or are currently contemplating, consumer protection, privacy, and data security laws or regulations that may relate to our business. The FCRA contains certain provisions that explicitly preempt some state laws to the extent the state laws seek to regulate certain specified areas, including the responsibilities of persons furnishing information to consumer reporting agencies. Unlike the FCRA, however, the GLB Act does not limit the ability of the states to enact privacy legislation that provides greater protections to consumers than those provided by the GLB Act. Some state legislatures or regulatory agencies have imposed, and others may impose, greater restrictions on the disclosure of consumer information than are already contained in the GLB Act and its implementing regulations, the Interagency Guidelines or the FTC’s rules. Any such legislation or regulation could adversely impact our ability to provide our customers with the products and services they require and that are necessary to make our products and services attractive to them. If a federal or state government or agency imposes additional legislative and/or regulatory requirements on us or our customers, or prohibits or limits our activities as currently conducted, we may be required to modify or terminate our products and services in that jurisdiction in a manner which could undermine our attractiveness or availability to dealers and/or financing sources doing business in that jurisdiction. The use of our electronic contracting product by financing sources is governed by relatively new laws. In the United States, the enforceability of electronic transactions is primarily governed by the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, a federal law enacted in 2000 that largely preempts inconsistent state law, and the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, a uniform state law that was finalized by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1999 and has now been adopted by every state. Case law has generally upheld the use of electronic signatures in commercial transactions and in consumer transactions where proper notice is provided and consumer consent to conducting business electronically is obtained. UCC 9-105 provides requirements to perfect security interests in electronic chattel paper. These laws impact the degree to which the financing sources in our network use our electronic contracting product. We believe that our electronic contracting product enables the perfection of a security interest in electronic chattel paper by meeting the transfer of “control” requirements of UCC 9-105. Certain of our financial institution clients have received third-party legal opinions to that effect. However, this issue has not been challenged in any legal proceeding. If a court were to find that our electronic contracting product is not sufficient to perfect a security interest in electronic chattel paper, or if existing laws were to change, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Federal and state regulatory requirements imposed on our financing source customers, such as the SEC’s Regulation AB relating to servicers of asset backed securities, may also result in our incurring additional expenses to facilitate financing source compliance regarding the use of our electronic contracting product. New legislation or changes in existing legislation may adversely affect our business. Our ability to conduct, and our cost of conducting, business may be adversely affected by a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning aspects of the Internet, which are currently under consideration by federal, state, local and foreign governments and various courts. These proposals include, but are not limited to, the following matters: on-line content, user privacy, taxation, access charges, and so-called “net-neutrality” liability of third-party activities and jurisdiction. Moreover, we do not know how existing laws relating to these issues will be applied to the Internet. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government restrictions on Internet content or anti-“net neutrality” legislation could slow the growth of Internet use and decrease acceptance of the Internet as a communications and commercial medium and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We utilize certain key technologies from, and integrate our network with, third parties and may be unable to replace those technologies if they become obsolete, unavailable or incompatible with our products or services. Our proprietary software is designed to work in conjunction with certain software from third-party vendors, including Microsoft, Oracle and eOriginal. Any significant interruption in the supply of such third-party software could have a material adverse effect on our ability to offer our products unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by these products and services. In addition, we are dependent upon these third parties’ ability to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. There can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently incorporated into our products or services in the event that such software becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products or services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. Any delay in or inability to replace any such functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, delays in the release of new and upgraded versions of third-party software products could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products and services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of Canada, and any other foreign countries in which we may market our products and services in the future, may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, and we may not prevail. We are currently asserting our patent rights against RouteOne and Finance Express in a proceeding that challenges their systems and methods for credit application processing and routing. There can be no assurances that we will prevail in this proceeding or that this proceeding will not result in certain of our patent rights being deemed invalid. Whether or not we prevail against RouteOne and Finance Express, the cost of these proceedings are and will continue to be substantial and may exceed budgeted amounts. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or manage costs associated with enforcing those rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We own the Internet domain names “dealertrack.com,” “alg.com,” “chrome.com,” “dealeraccess.com,” “arkona.com” and certain other domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our domain names. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. The relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting intellectual property rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. A license agreement we have with a financing source customer restricts our ability to utilize the technology licensed under this agreement beyond the automotive finance industry. An affiliate of JPMorgan claims certain proprietary rights with respect to certain technology developed as of February 1, 2001. We have an exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free license throughout the world to use this 20 Table of Contents technology in connection with the sale, leasing and financing of automobiles only, and the right to market, distribute and sub-license this technology solely to automotive dealerships, consumers and financing sources in connection with the sale, leasing and financing of automobiles only. The license agreement defines “automobile” as a passenger vehicle or light truck, snowmobiles, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, boats and other watercraft and commercial vehicles and excludes manufactured homes. We may be limited in our ability to utilize the licensed technology beyond the automotive finance industry. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, enter into royalty or licensing agreements or develop or license substitute technology. We may in the future be subject to claims that our technologies in our products and services infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. In addition, the vendors providing us with technology that we use in our own technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our products and services do not infringe any intellectual property or other proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that our products and services do not, or that they will not in the future, infringe intellectual property or other proprietary rights held by others. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts, or obtain a license to continue to use the products and services that is the subject of the claim, and/or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms from the third party asserting any particular claim, if at all, that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the products and services. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements for certain products and services that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to technology we provide to those customers, which could obligate us to pay damages if the products and services were found to be infringing. Infringement claims asserted against us, our vendors or our customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We could be sued for contract or product liability claims, and such lawsuits may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention or have an adverse effect on our financial results. We provide guarantees to subscribers of certain of our products and services that the data they receive through these products and services will be accurate. Additionally, general errors, defects or other performance problems in our products and services could result in financial or other damages to our customers or consumers. There can be no assurance that any limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions in excess of the applicable deductible amount. There can be no assurance that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage for any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention from our operations. Any contract liability claim or litigation against us could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our products and services are business-critical for our dealer and financing source customers and a failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain existing business or attract new business. 21 Table of Contents We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and intend to do so in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners or to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2001, we have acquired numerous businesses, including, most recently, our acquisition of certain assets from JM Dealer Services, Inc., including AAX, in January 2009. As part of our ongoing business strategy to expand product offerings and acquire new technology, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. There may be significant competition for acquisition targets in our industry, or we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or negotiate attractive terms for acquisitions. If we are unable to identify future acquisition opportunities, reach agreement with such third parties or obtain the financing necessary to make such acquisitions, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions or enter into alliances and joint ventures that we believe will be successful, such transactions are inherently risky. Significant risks to these transactions include the following: • integration and restructuring costs, both one-time and ongoing; • maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations; • establishing new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business; • losing key employees, customers and vendors; • failing to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services; and • unanticipated and unknown liabilities. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our acquisition strategy. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete acquisitions. In addition, we could use substantial portions of our available cash to pay all or a portion of the purchase prices of future acquisitions. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions as rapidly to the extent anticipated by our management and financial or industry analysts, and others may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Any acquisitions that we complete may dilute your ownership interest in us, may have adverse effects on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and may cause unanticipated liabilities. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership interests. Future acquisitions may also decrease our earnings or earnings per share and the benefits derived by us from an acquisition might not outweigh or might not exceed the dilutive effect of the acquisition. We also may incur additional indebtedness, have future impairment of assets, or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Failure to successfully integrate recent acquisitions or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent on our key management, direct sales force and technical personnel for continued success. Our company has grown significantly in size and scope in recent years, and our management remains concentrated in a small number of key employees. Our future success depends to a meaningful extent on our executive officers and other key employees, including members of our direct sales force and technology staff, such as our software developers and other senior technical personnel. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to sell subscription products and services to automotive dealers. We may need to hire additional sales, customer service, integration and training personnel in the near-term and beyond if we are to achieve revenue growth in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or group of individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the technology industry is intense and we compete for these personnel with other technology companies that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any difficulty in hiring or retaining needed personnel, or increased costs related thereto could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. For example, net revenue increased from $70.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $120.2 million, $173.3 million, $233.8 million and $242.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Our growth may place a strain on our management team, information systems and other resources. Our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires oversight from our senior management, as well as adequate information systems and other resources. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures as we continue to grow and expand our business. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. Our future operating results could also depend on our ability to manage: • our expanding product lines; • our marketing and sales organizations; and • our client support organization as use of our products increases. In addition, as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to hire, train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if we raise additional capital, it may dilute our stockholders’ ownership in us. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to meet various objectives, such as: • acquiring businesses, customer, technologies, products and services; • taking advantage of growth opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • making capital improvements to increase our capacity; • developing new services or products; and • responding to competitive pressures. 23 Table of Contents Any debt incurred by us could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or further acquisitions. Covenants governing any debt we incur would likely restrict our ability to take specific actions, including our ability to pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase our capital stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge, consolidate or sell our assets or make capital expenditure investments. In addition, the use of a substantial portion of the cash generated by our operations to cover debt service obligations and any security interests we grant on our assets could limit our financial and business flexibility. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity, or convertible debt securities may dilute our stockholders’ respective ownership percentages in us. Furthermore, any additional debt or equity financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to raise additional capital, which could significantly limit our ability to implement our business plan. In addition, we may issue securities, including debt securities that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Our financing source customers may elect to use competing third-party services, either in addition to or instead of our network. Our financing source customers continue to receive credit applications and purchase retail installment sales and lease contracts directly from their dealer customers through traditional indirect financing methods, including via facsimile and other electronic means of communication, in addition to using our network. Many of our financing source customers are involved in other ventures as participants and/or as equity holders, and such ventures or newly created ventures may compete with us and our network now and in the future. Continued use of alternative methods to ours by these financing source customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our fifth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including, but not limited to, the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • our stockholders have only limited rights to amend our by-laws; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 24 Table of Contents If our intangible assets, such as trademarks and goodwill, become impaired we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings which would negatively impact our results of operations. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our intangible assets, including our trademarks licenses and goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be fully recoverable. The carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows, including those associated with the specific brands to which intangibles relate, or slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a long-term financial outlook of our operations and the specific brands to which the intangible assets relate. However, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates and the recorded value of the intangibles. For example, a significant, sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization may result in impairment of certain of our intangible assets, including goodwill, and a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which an impairment is determined to exist. For twelve days between October 24, 2008 and November 24, 2008 and on January 21, 2009 our market capitalization dropped below the carrying value of our consolidated net assets. Despite the fact that our market cap traded below our book value for twelve days we do not believe that there has been an impairment based on the duration and depth of the market decline as well as an implied control premium. A control premium is the amount that a buyer is willing to pay over the current market price of a company as indicated by the market capitalization, in order to acquire a controlling interest. The premium is justified by the expected synergies, such as the expected increase in cash flow resulting from the cost savings and revenue enhancements .However, due to the ongoing uncertainty in market conditions, which may continue to negatively impact our market capitalization, we will continue to monitor and evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill. In the event we had to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill, any such impairment charge could materially reduce our results of operations. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of 12 months and our investment portfolio has been subject to impairment charges due to the recent financial crisis in the capital markets and may be adversely impacted by further deterioration of the capital markets. As of December 31, 2008, we have $5.3 million (net of impairment charge) of auction rate securities (ARS), of which, $3.7 million (net of impairment charge) is invested in tax-advantaged preferred stock trusts in which the underlying equities are preferred stock of financial institutions and $1.6 million invested in tax-exempt state government obligations. Our investments securities are classified as available for sale and reported at fair value. ARS have long-term underlying maturities, but have interest rates that reset every six months or less. The $3.7 million invested in tax-advantaged preferred stock trust securities are associated with failed auctions, for which we have been, or expect to be notified that the trust will be dissolved and will distribute the underlying security. As we expect to receive the liquid underlying preferred stock instruments within ninety days of year end, we believe that the most representative measure of fair value of these trusts to be the Level 2 quoted market prices of the underlying preferred stock instruments. Based upon our assessment, we reduced the fair value of the investments in the preferred stock trusts from $9.6 million to $3.7 million and recorded an other-than-temporary charge of $6.0 million to earnings and an unrealized gain of $0.1 million to stockholders’ equity during the year ended December 31, 2008. The $1.6 million invested in tax-exempt state government obligations was valued at par using Level 3 data. Our intent is not to hold the $1.6 million of ARS invested in tax-exempt state government obligations to maturity, but rather use the interest reset feature to provide liquidity as necessary. We reviewed the ARS portfolio for impairment in accordance with FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments and Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5M Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, to determine the classification of the impairment as “temporary” or “other-than-temporary”. A temporary impairment charge results in an unrealized loss being recorded in the other comprehensive income component of stockholders’ equity. It occurs if a loss in an investment is determined to be temporary in nature and we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a recovery in market value takes place. Such an unrealized loss does not reduce our net income 25 Table of Contents for the applicable accounting period because the loss is not viewed as other-than-temporary. An impairment charge is recorded against earnings to the extent we determine that there is a loss of fair value that is other-than-temporary. We have determined that the significant reduction in fair value related to our preferred stock trusts ARS was other-than-temporary and we recorded an impairment charge in our consolidated statements of operations based on a variety of factors, including the significant decline in fair value indicated for the individual investments and the adverse market conditions impacting ARS. Based on our available cash and other investments, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by failed auctions will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or will affect our ability to operate our business as usual. The valuation of our ARS portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and we may be required to further reduce the carrying value of these securities, which would result in an additional loss being recognized in our statement of operations, which could be material. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value of our investments. A total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition. The price of our common stock may be volatile, particularly given the economic downturn and volatility in domestic and international stock markets. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of equity research analysts; • trends in the automotive and automotive finance industries; • catastrophic events; • loss of one or more significant customers or strategic alliances; • significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • legal or regulatory matters, including legal decisions affecting the indirect automotive finance industry or involving the enforceability or order of priority of security interests of electronic chattel paper affecting our electronic contracting product; and • additions or departures of key employees. The stock market in general, the NASDAQ Global Market, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These forces reached unprecedented levels in the second half of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions and a material decline in economic conditions. In particular, the U.S. equity markets experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. During 2008, our stock price has experienced volatility, with the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market having ranged from $34.07 on January 2, 2008 to $8.84 on November 6, 2008. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 