Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business We expect to derive substantially all of our future revenues from the rental or sale of our System One and the sale of our related disposable products used with the System One. Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts to the development of the System One and the related products used with the System One. We commenced marketing the System One and the related disposable products to the critical care market in February 2003. We commenced marketing the System One for chronic hemodialysis treatment in September 2004. We expect that the rental or sale of the System One and the sale of related products will account for substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Most of our related products cannot be used with any other dialysis systems and, therefore, we will derive little or no revenues from related products unless we sell or otherwise place the System One. To the extent that the System One is not a successful product or is withdrawn from the market for any reason, we do not have other products in development that could replace revenues from the System One. We cannot accurately predict the size of the home hemodialysis market, and it may be smaller or slower to develop than we expect. Although home hemodialysis treatment options are available, adoption has been limited. The most widely adopted form of dialysis therapy used in a setting other than a dialysis clinic is peritoneal dialysis. Based on the most recently available data from the United States Renal Data System, or USRDS, the number of patients receiving peritoneal dialysis was approximately 25,000 in 2002, representing approximately 8% of all patients receiving dialysis treatment for ESRD in the United States. Very few ESRD patients receive hemodialysis treatment outside of the clinic setting; USRDS data indicates approximately 1,200 patients were receiving home-based hemodialysis in 2002. Because the adoption of home hemodialysis has been limited to date, the number of patients who desire to, and are capable of, administering their own hemodialysis treatment with a system such as the System One is unknown and there is limited data upon which to make estimates. Our long-term growth will depend on the number of patients who adopt home-based hemodialysis and how quickly they adopt it, and we do not know whether the number of home-based dialysis patients will be greater or fewer than the number of patients performing peritoneal dialysis or how many peritoneal dialysis patients will switch to home-based hemodialysis. We received our home use clearance for the System One from the FDA in June 2005 and we will need to devote significant resources to developing the market. We cannot be certain that this market will develop, how quickly it will develop or how large it will be. We will require significant capital to build our business, and financing may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We believe that the chronic market is the largest market opportunity for our System One hemodialysis system. We typically bill the dialysis clinic for the rental of the equipment and the sale of the related disposable cartridges and treatment fluids. As a result, we expect that we will generate revenues and cash flow from the use of the cyclers over time rather than upfront from the sale of the cyclers, and we will need significant amounts of working capital to manufacture cyclers for rental to dialysis clinics. We only recently began marketing our System One to dialysis clinics for the treatment of ESRD, and we have not achieved widespread market acceptance of our product. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to meet our capital needs. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to sell additional equity or debt securities. Any sale of additional equity or debt securities may result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and we cannot be certain that additional public or private financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more aspects of our business strategy, which could harm the growth of our business. 19 Table of Contents We have limited operating experience, a history of net losses and an accumulated deficit of $84.0 million at December 31, 2005. We cannot guarantee if, when and the extent that we will become profitable, or that we will be able to maintain profitability once it is achieved. Since inception, we have incurred losses every quarter and at December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $(84.0) million. We expect to incur increasing operating expenses as we continue to grow our business. Additionally, in the ESRD market, the cost of manufacturing the System One and related disposables currently exceeds the market price. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to lower the cost of manufacturing the System One and related disposables below the current chronic market price, that we will achieve profitability, when we will become profitable, the sustainability of profitability should it occur, or the extent to which we will be profitable. Our ability to become profitable is dependent in part upon achieving a sufficient scale of operations, obtaining improved purchasing terms and the implementation of design and process improvements to lower our costs of manufacturing our products. Our dialysate preparation module, which we hope to introduce in the chronic market during the third calendar quarter of 2006, is an important part of our cost reduction plans. Any delay in our plans to introduce that product, or any failure to gain rapid market acceptance of that product, will impair our ability to achieve profitability. We submitted an application for clearance of our next generation of the dialysate preparation module to the FDA in February 2006. We cannot be certain that the FDA will clear our submission on a timely basis or that a delay in the market introduction of this product will not occur. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to gain rapid market acceptance of this product after FDA clearance is obtained. We only recently began marketing our System One hemodialysis system to dialysis clinics for the treatment of ESRD, and our success will depend on our ability to achieve market acceptance of our System One. We only recently began marketing our System One for the treatment of ESRD. Our products have limited product and brand recognition and have only been used at a limited number of dialysis clinics and hospitals. In the ESRD market, we will have to convince four distinct constituencies involved in the choice of dialysis therapy, namely operators of dialysis clinics, nephrologists, dialysis nurses and patients, that our system provides an effective alternative to other existing dialysis equipment. Each of these constituencies will use different considerations in reaching their decision. Lack of acceptance by any of these constituencies will make it difficult for us to grow our business. We may have difficulty gaining widespread or rapid acceptance of the System One for a number of reasons including: • the failure by us to demonstrate to patients, operators of dialysis clinics, nephrologists, dialysis nurses and others that our product is equivalent or superior to existing therapy options or, that the cost or risk associated with use of our product is not greater than available alternatives; • competition from products sold by companies with longer operating histories and greater financial resources, more recognizable brand names and better established distribution networks and relationships with dialysis clinics; • the ownership and operation of some dialysis providers by companies that also manufacture and sell competitive dialysis products; • the introduction of competing products or treatments that may be more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than ours; • the number of patients willing and able to perform therapy independently, outside of a traditional dialysis clinic, may be smaller than we estimate; and • the continued availability of satisfactory reimbursement from healthcare payors, including Medicare. 20 Table of Contents Current Medicare reimbursement rates limit the price at which we can market the System One, and adverse changes to reimbursement could affect the adoption of the System One. Our ability to attain profitability will be driven in part by our ability to set or maintain adequate pricing for our System One. As a result of legislation passed by the U.S. Congress more than 30 years ago, Medicare provides comprehensive and well-established reimbursement in the United States for ESRD. With over 80% of U.S. ESRD patients covered by Medicare, the reimbursement rate is an important factor in a potential customer’s decision to use the System One and limits the fee for which we can rent the System One and sell the related disposable cartridges and treatment fluids. Current CMS rules limit the number of hemodialysis treatments paid for by Medicare to three times a week, unless there is medical justification for additional treatments. Most patients using the System One in the home treat themselves, with the help of a partner, up to six times per week. To the extent that Medicare contractors elect not to pay for the additional treatments, adoption of the System One may be slowed. Although changes to the composite rate have been relatively infrequent, changes in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively affect demand for our products and the prices we charge for them. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in the development of dialysis products into one that is also involved in the commercialization of those products, we may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As the commercial launch of the System One continues, we will need to expand our regulatory, manufacturing, sales and marketing and on-going development capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various partners, suppliers, manufacturers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. Such growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. We compete against other dialysis equipment manufacturers with much greater financial resources and better established products and customer relationships, which may make it difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. Our System One competes directly against equipment produced by Fresenius Medical Care AG, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Gambro AB, and others, each of which markets one or more FDA-cleared medical devices for the treatment of acute or chronic kidney failure. In addition, Aksys, Ltd. sells a hemodialysis machine, which is also specifically cleared by the FDA for home use. Each of our competitors offers products that have been in use for a longer time than our products and are more widely recognized by physicians, patients and providers. Most of our competitors have significantly more financial and human resources, more established sales, service and customer support infrastructures and spend more on product development and marketing than we do. Many of our competitors also have established relationships with the providers of dialysis therapy and, in the case of Fresenius, own and operate a chain of dialysis clinics. Most of these companies manufacture additional complementary products enabling them to offer a bundle of products and have established sales forces and distribution channels that may afford them a significant competitive advantage. The market for our products is competitive, subject to change and affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, including increased consolidation of ownership of clinics by large dialysis chains. If we are successful, our competitors are likely to develop products that offer features and functionality similar to our System One. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may make it more difficult for us to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety, convenience or effectiveness or are offered at lower prices than our System One. Our ability to successfully market our products could also be adversely affected by 21 Table of Contents pharmacological and technological advances in preventing the progression of ESRD and/or in the treatment of acute kidney failure or fluid overload. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments and pharmacological and technological advances, it will be difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. The two largest dialysis clinic chains in the United States are affiliated with, or have contractual arrangements with, other dialysis equipment manufacturers, which may present a barrier to adoption of the System One at these chains. Fresenius and DaVita own and operate the two largest chains of dialysis clinics in the United States. Fresenius controls approximately 35% of the U.S. dialysis clinics, on a pro forma basis assuming the completion of its pending acquisition of Renal Care Group and the completion of the recently announced sale of 100 clinics to National Renal Institutes. Fresenius is also the largest worldwide manufacturer of dialysis systems. DaVita controls approximately 28% of the U.S. dialysis clinics, and has entered into a preferred supplier agreement with Gambro pursuant to which Gambro will provide a significant majority of DaVita’s dialysis equipment and supplies for a period of at least 10 years. Each of Fresenius and DaVita may choose to offer to patients in their dialysis clinics only the dialysis equipment manufactured by them or their affiliates, to offer the equipment they contractually agreed to offer or to otherwise limit access to the equipment manufactured by competitors. We are presently renting the System One to several DaVita dialysis clinics. We cannot be sure that DaVita will continue to rent the System One from us or that any future decision by DaVita to stop using the System One would not adversely affect our business. If kidney transplantation becomes a viable treatment option for more patients with ESRD, the market for our System One may be limited. While kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for most ESRD patients, it is not currently a viable treatment for most patients due to the limited number of donor kidneys, the high incidence of kidney transplant rejection and the higher surgical risk associated with older ESRD patients. According to the most recent USRDS data, in 2002 approximately 15,700 patients received kidney transplants in the United States. The development of new medications designed to reduce the incidence of kidney transplant rejection, progress in using kidneys harvested from genetically engineered animals as a source of transplants or any other advances in kidney transplantation could limit the market for our System One. If we are unable to convince hospitals and healthcare providers of the benefits of our products for the treatment of acute kidney failure and fluid overload, we may not be successful in penetrating the critical care market. We sell the System One for use in the treatment of acute kidney failure and fluid overload associated with, among other conditions, congestive heart failure. Physicians currently treat most acute kidney failure patients using conventional hemodialysis systems or dialysis systems designed specifically for use in the ICU. We will need to convince hospitals and healthcare providers that using the System One is as effective as using conventional hemodialysis systems or ICU specific dialysis systems for treating acute kidney failure and that it provides advantages over conventional systems or other ICU specific systems because of its significantly smaller size and ease of operation. Fluid overload resulting from congestive heart failure is most often treated with a variety of drugs rather than with ultrafiltration because ultrafiltration is a less well-known, less studied treatment option and as a result, there is a lack of clinical evidence to support its effectiveness. Because the System One would be used to deliver ultrafiltration, we will need to convince hospitals, healthcare providers and third-party payors that ultrafiltration using the System One is as effective and cost-efficient as existing treatments for fluid overload resulting from congestive heart failure. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of costly and damaging product liability claims and may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. If our System One is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. As is the case with a number of other medical device companies, it is likely that product liability claims will be brought against us. Since their introduction into the market, our products have been subject to two voluntary recalls and one voluntary product withdrawal. Our first voluntary recall occurred in February 2001 in Canada and related to a software glitch that we detected in our predecessor system, which could have increased the likelihood of a clotted filter during treatment. There were no patient injuries associated with this recall, and the software glitch was remedied with a subsequent software release. The second voluntary recall occurred in April 2004 in the United States relating to pinhole-sized dialysate leaks in our cartridge. The leaks were readily observable and required a cartridge replacement to continue treatment. There were no patient injuries associated with this recall; we subsequently switched suppliers and instituted additional testing requirements to minimize the chance for pinhole-sized leaks in our cartridges. The voluntary market withdrawal occurred in the United States in May 2002 when we suspended sales of our predecessor system while we addressed issues involving limited instances of contaminated hemofiltration fluids compounded by a pharmacy and supplied by a third-party. Six patients exposed to contaminated fluids reported fevers and/or chills, with no lasting clinical effect. We subsequently modified our cartridge to allow for an additional filter to remove contaminants from fluids used with our product. Our products may be subject to further recalls or withdrawals, which could increase the likelihood of product liability claims. We have also received several reports of operator error from both patients in the home hemodialysis setting and nurses in the critical care setting. Instances of operator error could also increase the likelihood of product liability claims. Although we maintain insurance, including product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that any claim that may be brought against us will not result in court judgments or settlements in amounts that are in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional insurance coverage in the future. A product liability claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, distracting and expensive to defend and could result in a diversion of management and financial resources away from our primary business, in which case our business may suffer. We have had limited sales, marketing, customer service and distribution experience. We need to expand our sales and marketing, customer service and distribution infrastructures to be successful in penetrating the dialysis market. We currently market and sell the System One through our own sales force, and we have had limited experience in sales, marketing and distribution of dialysis products. As of December 31, 2005, we had 65 employees in our sales, marketing and distribution organization, including 20 direct sales representatives. We plan to expand our sales, marketing, customer service and distribution infrastructures. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to attract experienced personnel to our early-stage company and build an adequate sales and marketing, customer service and distribution staff or that the cost will not be prohibitive. We face risks associated with having international manufacturing operations, and if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business could suffer. In addition to our operations in Lawrence, Massachusetts, we operate a manufacturing facility in Rosdorf, Germany and we purchase components and supplies from foreign vendors. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these international operations, and we may not be successful if we are 23 Table of Contents unable to meet and overcome these challenges. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase the U.S. dollar cost of the disposables we purchase from foreign third-party suppliers, costs associated with sourcing and shipping goods internationally, difficulty managing operations in multiple locations and local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our operations. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment We are subject to significant regulation, primarily by the FDA. We cannot market or commercially distribute our products without obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory clearances or approvals. Our System One and related products, including the disposables required for its use, are all medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the United States, and in foreign markets we may wish to enter. To market a medical device in the United States, approval or clearance by the FDA is required, either through the pre-market approval process or the 510(k) clearance process. We have obtained the FDA clearances necessary to sell our current products under the 510(k) clearance process. Medical devices may only be promoted and sold for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. In addition, even if the FDA has approved or cleared a product, it can take action affecting such product approvals or clearances if serious safety or other problems develop in the marketplace. We may be required to obtain 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for additional products, product modifications, or for new indications for the System One. We cannot provide assurance that such clearances or approvals would be forthcoming, or, if forthcoming, what the timing and expense of obtaining such clearances or approvals might be. Delays in obtaining clearances or approvals could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or modifications to our existing products in a timely manner, which would delay or prevent commercial sales of our products. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modifications to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires the submission of another pre-market notification to address the change. Although in the first instance we may determine that a change does not rise to a level of significance that would require us to make a pre-market notification submission, the FDA may disagree with us and can require us to submit a 510(k) for a significant technological change or major change or modification in intended use, despite a documented rationale for not submitting a pre-market notification. We have modified various aspects of the System One and have filed and received clearance from the FDA with respect to some of the changes in the design of our products. If the FDA requires us to submit a 510(k) for any modification to a previously cleared device, or in the future a device that has received 510(k) clearance, we may be required to cease marketing the device, recall it, and not resume marketing until we obtain clearance from the FDA for the modified version of the device. Also, we may be subject to regulatory fines, penalties and/or other sanctions authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In the future, we intend to introduce new products and enhancements and improvements to existing products. We cannot provide assurance that the FDA will clear any new product or product changes for marketing or what the timing of such clearances might be. In addition, new products or significantly modified marketed products could be found to be not substantially equivalent and classified as products requiring the FDA’s approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA, before commercial distribution would be permissible. PMAs usually require substantially more data than 510(k) submissions and their review and approval or denial typically takes significantly longer than a substantially equivalent 510(k) decision. Also, PMA products require approval supplements for any change that affects safety and effectiveness before the modified device may be marketed. Delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval will cause delays in our ability to sell our products, which will have a negative effect on our revenues growth. 24 Table of Contents Even if we obtain the necessary FDA clearances or approvals, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. We are subject to the Medical Device Reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to patient death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. Our failure to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • administrative detention, which is the detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refund; • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusal to review pre-market notification or pre-market approval submissions; • rescission of a substantial equivalence order or suspension or withdrawal of a pre-market approval; and • criminal prosecution. Our products are subject to market withdrawals or product recalls after receiving FDA clearance or approval, and market withdrawals and product recalls could cause the price of our stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims or could otherwise harm our reputation and financial results. Complex medical devices, such as the System One, can experience performance problems in the field that require review and possible corrective action by us or the product manufacturer. We cannot provide assurance that component failures, manufacturing errors, design defects and/or labeling inadequacies, which could result in an unsafe condition or injury to the operator or the patient will not occur. These could lead to a government mandated or voluntary recall by us. The FDA has the authority to require the recall of our products in the event a product presents a reasonable probability that it would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Similar regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. We believe that the FDA would request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the System One could be particularly harmful to our business and financial results, because the System One is our only product. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with FDA’s Quality System regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. Our finished goods manufacturing processes, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System regulations, or QSRs, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its QSRs through periodic unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Our U.S. manufacturing facility has previously had two FDA QSR inspections. The first resulted in one observation, which was rectified during the inspection and required no further response from us. The second inspection resulted in no observations. We cannot provide assurance that any 25 Table of Contents future inspections would have the same result. If one of our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our contract manufacturers fails to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, FDA could take enforcement action, including issuing a public warning letter, shutting down our manufacturing operations, recalling of our products, refusing to approve new marketing applications, instituting legal proceedings to detain or seize products or imposing civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Changes in reimbursement for treatment for ESRD could affect the adoption of our System One and the level of our future product revenues. In the United States, all patients who suffer from ESRD, regardless of age, are eligible for coverage under Medicare, after a requisite waiting period if other insurance is available. As a result, more than 80% of patients with ESRD are covered by Medicare. Although we rent and sell our products to hospitals, dialysis centers and other healthcare providers and not directly to patients, the reimbursement rate for ESRD treatments is an important factor in a potential customer’s decision to purchase the System One. The dialysis centers that purchase our product rely on adequate third-party payor coverage and reimbursement to maintain their ESRD facilities. There is some regional variation in the composite rate for dialysis services, but the national average rate is currently approximately $155 per treatment, which is intended to cover most items and services related to the treatment of ESRD, but does not include payment for physician services or separately billable laboratory services or drugs. Although Congress has periodically adjusted the composite rate, changes have been infrequent. Changes in Medicare reimbursement rates could negatively affect demand for our products and the prices we charge for them. Most ESRD patients who use our product for dialysis therapy in the home treat themselves six times per week. CMS rules, however, limit the number of hemodialysis treatments paid for by Medicare to three a week, unless there is medical justification for the additional treatments. The determination of medical justification must be made at the local Medicare contractor level on a case-by-case basis. If daily therapy is prescribed, a clinic’s decision as to how much it is willing to spend on dialysis equipment and services will be at least partly dependent on whether Medicare will reimburse more than three treatments per week for the clinic’s patients. Unlike Medicare reimbursement for ESRD, Medicare only reimburses healthcare providers for acute kidney failure and fluid overload treatment if the patient is otherwise eligible for Medicare, based on age or disability. Medicare and many other third party payors and private insurers reimburse these treatments provided to hospital inpatients under a traditional diagnosis related system. Under this system, reimbursement is determined based on a patient’s primary diagnosis and is intended to cover all costs of treating the patient. The presence of acute kidney failure or fluid overload increases the severity of the primary diagnosis and, accordingly, may increase the amount reimbursed. For care of these patients to be cost-effective, hospitals must manage the longer hospitalization stays and significantly more nursing time typically necessary for patients with acute kidney failure and fluid overload. If we are unable to convince hospitals that our System One provides a cost-effective treatment alternative under this diagnosis related group reimbursement system, they may not purchase our product. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and foreign countries, there have been legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The federal government and some states have enacted healthcare reform legislation, and further federal and state proposals are likely. We cannot predict the exact form this legislation may take, the probability of passage, and the ultimate effect on NxStage. Our business could be adversely affected by future healthcare reforms or changes in Medicare. 26 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products outside the United States. Although we have not initiated any marketing efforts in jurisdictions outside of the United States and Canada, we intend in the future to market our products in other markets. In order to market our products in the European Union or other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies from country to country and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA clearance. The foreign regulatory approval process includes many of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. FDA clearance does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States, which could negatively effect our overall market penetration. We currently have obligations under our contracts with dialysis clinics to protect the privacy of patient health information. In the course of performing our business we obtain, from time to time, confidential patient health information. For example, we learn patient names and addresses when we ship our System One supplies to home hemodialysis patients. We may learn patient names and be exposed to confidential patient health information when we provide training on System One operations to our customer’s staff. Our home hemodialysis patients may also call our customer service representatives directly and, during the call, disclose confidential patient health information. U.S. Federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, in particular individually identifiable information, and restrict the use and disclosure of that information. At the federal level, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgated health information and privacy and security rules under HIPAA. At this time, we are not a HIPAA covered entity and consequently are not directly subject to HIPAA. However, we have entered into several business associate agreements with covered entities that contain commitments to protect the privacy and security of patients’ health information and, in some instances, require that we indemnify the covered entity for any claim, liability, damage, cost or expense arising out of or in connection with a breach of the agreement by NxStage. If we were to violate one of these agreements, we could lose customers and be exposed to liability and/or our reputation and business could be harmed. In addition, conduct by a person that is not a covered entity could potentially be prosecuted under aiding and abetting or conspiracy laws if there is an improper disclosure or misuse of patient information. Many state laws apply to the use and disclosure of health information, which could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Such laws are not necessarily preempted by HIPAA, in particular those laws that afford greater protection to the individual than does HIPAA. Such state laws typically have their own penalty provisions, which could be applied in the event of an unlawful action affecting health information. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false and fraudulent claims which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenges to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. The Medicare/ Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments that are intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of medical devices. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales and rental offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. Although we seek to structure such arrangements in compliance with applicable requirements, these laws are 27 Table of Contents broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied in specific circumstances. If one of our sales representatives were to offer an inappropriate inducement to purchase our System One to a customer, we could be subject to a claim under the Medicare/ Medicaid anti-kickback laws. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payments from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities. In providing billing and coding information to customers, we make every effort to ensure that the billing and coding information furnished is accurate and that treating physicians understand that they are responsible for all billing and prescribing decisions, including the decision as to whether to order dialysis services more frequently than three times per week. Nevertheless, we cannot provide assurance that the government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent or that the government will not examine our role in providing information to our customers concerning the benefits of daily therapy. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil, criminal and administrative penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Moreover, an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. Although we have not initiated any marketing efforts in jurisdictions outside of the United States and Canada, we intend in the future to market our products in other markets. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of medical devices is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to supply data that compares the cost-effectiveness of the System One to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, it may not be profitable to sell our products outside of the United States, which would negatively affect the long-term growth of our business. Our business activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. Our research and development programs as well as our manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage. Risks Related to Operations We depend on the services of our senior executives and certain key engineering, scientific, clinical and marketing personnel, the loss of whom could negatively affect our business. Our success depends upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, including our chief executive officer, certain members of our engineering staff, our marketing executives and managers and our clinical educators. Much of our corporate expertise is concentrated in relatively few employees, the loss of which for any reason could negatively affect our business. Competition for our highly skilled employees is intense and we cannot prevent the resignation of any employee. We have 28 Table of Contents agreements with all of our executive officers that contain non-competition provisions that may prevent a former employee of ours from working for a competitor for a period of time; however, these clauses may not be enforceable, or enforceable only in part, or the company may choose not to seek enforcement. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our senior executives, other than our chief executive officer. We obtain some of the components, subassemblies and completed products included in the System One from a single source or a limited group of manufacturers or suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these manufacturers or suppliers could cause significant production delays, an inability to meet customer demand and a substantial loss in revenues. We depend on single source suppliers for some of the components and subassemblies we use in the System One. KMC Systems, Inc. is our only contract manufacturer of the System One cycler; B. Braun Medizintechnologie GmbH is our only supplier of bicarbonate-based dialysate used with the System One; Membrana GmbH is our only supplier of the fiber used in our filters; PISA is a primary supplier of lactate-based dialysate and Medisystems Corporation is our primary supplier of tubing and certain other components used in the System One disposable cartridge, and will soon be our sole supplier of chronic disposable cartridges. We also obtain certain other components included in the System One from other single source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers. Medisystems is a related party to NxStage. David Utterberg, the chief executive officer and sole stockholder of Medisystems, is a member of our board of directors and as of December 31, 2005, held approximately 9.3% of our common stock. Our dependence on single source suppliers of components, subassemblies and finished goods exposes us to several risks, including disruptions in supply, price increases, late deliveries, or an inability to meet customer demand. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, or cause customers to switch to competitive products. Any interruption in supply could be particularly damaging to our customers using the System One to treat chronic ESRD and who need weekly access to the System One and related disposables. Finding alternative sources for these components and subassemblies would be difficult in many cases and may entail a significant amount of time and disruption. In some cases, we would need to change the components or subassemblies if we sourced them from an alternative supplier. This, in turn, could require a redesign of our System One and, potentially, further FDA clearance or approval of any modification, thereby causing further costs and delays. We do not have long-term supply contracts with many of our third-party suppliers. We purchase components and subassemblies from third-party suppliers, including some of our single source suppliers, through purchase orders and do not have long-term supply contracts with many of these third-party suppliers. Many of our third-party suppliers, therefore, are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We do not maintain large volumes of inventory from most of these suppliers. If we inaccurately forecast demand for components or subassemblies, our ability to manufacture and commercialize the System One could be delayed and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these suppliers, we may be required to change suppliers which would be time consuming and disruptive. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its use by third parties, we will lose a significant competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and prevent others from duplicating our products. However, these means may afford only limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. 29 Table of Contents Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products could be impaired, which could make our products less competitive. As of December 31, 2005, we had 66 pending patent applications, including foreign, international and U.S. applications, and 20 U.S. and international issued patents. We cannot specify which of these patents individually or as a group will permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. We cannot provide assurance that any pending or future patent applications we hold will result in an issued patent or that if patents are issued to us, that such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. The United States federal courts or equivalent national courts or patent offices elsewhere may invalidate our patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Our patents and patent applications cover particular aspects of our products. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods for treating kidney failure. If these developments were to occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on our sales. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and market share. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and/or prevent us from using technology that is essential to our products. The medical device industry in general has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patent infringement and intellectual property rights. Products to provide kidney replacement therapy have been available in the market for more than 30 years and our competitors hold a significant number of patents relating to kidney replacement devices, therapies, products and supplies. Although no third party has threatened or alleged that our products or methods infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we cannot provide assurance that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm to our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of the business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenues; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all and which could reduce profitability; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored 30 Table of Contents researchers, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and trade secrets and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover or reverse engineer trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of other companies. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies focused on the development of dialysis products, including our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, damage to our reputation and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Ownership Our stock price is likely to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early stage companies have historically been particularly volatile. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • timing of market acceptance of our products; • timing of achieving profitability and positive cash flow from operations; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts or the failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • reports by officials or health or medical authorities, the general media or the FDA regarding the potential benefits of the System One or of similar dialysis products distributed by other companies or of daily or home dialysis; • announcements by the FDA of non-clearance or non-approval of our products, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; • product recalls; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • changes in third-party healthcare reimbursements, particularly a decline in the level of Medicare reimbursement for dialysis treatments; • litigation involving our company or our general industry or both; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • our ability to manufacture and supply our products to commercial standards; • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; 31 Table of Contents • departures of key personnel; and • investors’ general perception of our company, our products, the economy and general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Our executive officers, directors and current and principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting common stock and could limit new stockholders’ influence on corporate decisions or could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and current holders of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will have the ability to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • entrenching our management and/or board; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; • advance notice requirements for nominations of directors or stockholder proposals; and • the requirement that board vacancies be filled by a majority of our directors then in office. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger 32 Table of Contents or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the market by our existing stockholders, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We have 21,176,554 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Shares held by our affiliates may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which approximates 211,766 shares, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. Approximately 14,692,000 shares, or 69.4%, of our outstanding shares are currently restricted as a result of securities laws or lock-up agreements. In connection with our initial public offering of common stock, officers, directors and a substantial majority of our other stockholders agreed, with exceptions, not to sell or transfer any common stock until April 24, 2006, subject to extension by up to an additional 34 days by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated. Upon expiration or termination of these lock-up agreements, approximately 2,900,000 shares of common stock will be freely tradeable. Subject to certain conditions, holders of an aggregate of approximately 13,401,000 shares of common stock have rights with respect to the registration of these shares of common stock with the SEC. If we register their shares of common stock following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, they can sell those shares in the public market. As of December 31, 2005, 2,683,286 shares were subject to outstanding options, of which 1,448,571 were exercisable and which can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above and the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. Our costs have increased significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ National Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel now need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2006, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ National Market, SEC or other regulatory authorities. 33 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to investors. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 