Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to our Business 29 Table of Contents We expect to derive a significant percentage of our future revenues from the rental or sale of our System One and the related products used with the System One and a limited number of other products. Since our inception, we have devoted a substantial amount of our efforts to the development of the System One and the related products used with the System One. We commenced marketing the System One and the related disposable products to the critical care market in February 2003. We commenced marketing the System One for chronic hemodialysis treatment in September 2004. Prior to the acquisition of the Medisystems Corporation and certain affiliated entities, or the Medisystems Acquisition, on October 1, 2007, nearly 100% of our revenues were derived from the rental or sale of our System One and the sale of related disposables. Although the Medisystems Acquisition broadened our product offerings, we expect that in 2011 and in the foreseeable future, we will continue to derive a significant percentage of our revenues from the System One, and that we will derive the remainder of our revenues from the sale of a few key disposable products acquired in the Medisystems Acquisition, including blood tubing sets and needles. To the extent that any of our primary products are not commercially successful or are withdrawn from the market for any reason, our revenues will be adversely impacted, and we do not have other significant products in development that could readily replace these revenues. We cannot accurately predict the size of the home hemodialysis market, and it may be smaller, and may develop more slowly than we expect. We believe our largest future product market opportunity is the home hemodialysis market. However this market is presently very small and adoption of the home hemodialysis treatment options has been limited. The most widely adopted form of dialysis therapy used in a setting other than a dialysis clinic is peritoneal dialysis. Based on the most recently available data from the United States Renal Data System, or USRDS, less than 10% of all United States patients receiving dialysis treatment for ESRD receive either peritoneal dialysis or home hemodialysis. Because the adoption of home hemodialysis has been limited to date, the number of patients and their partners who desire to, and are capable of, administering hemodialysis treatment with a system such as the System One is unknown and there is limited data upon which to make estimates. In addition, many dialysis clinics do not presently have the infrastructure in place to support home hemodialysis and most do not have the infrastructure in place to support a significant home hemodialysis patient population. Our long-term growth will depend on the number of patients who adopt home-based hemodialysis and how quickly they adopt it, which in turn is driven by the number of physicians willing to prescribe home hemodialysis and the number of dialysis clinics able or willing to establish and support home hemodialysis therapies. Because nearly all our home hemodialysis patients are also receiving more frequent dialysis, meaning dialysis delivered five or more times a week, the market adoption of our System One for home hemodialysis is also dependent upon the penetration and market acceptance of more frequent hemodialysis. Given the increased provider supply costs associated with providing more frequent dialysis versus conventional three-times per week dialysis, market acceptance will be impacted, especially for Medicare patients, by whether dialysis clinics are able to obtain reimbursement for additional dialysis treatments provided in excess of three times a week. Presently, we understand that some of our customers are unable to obtain such additional reimbursement in all cases, and that there are increased administrative burdens associated with articulating the medical justification for treatments beyond three times per week. Both of these factors will likely negatively impact the rate and extent of any further market expansion of our System One for home hemodialysis. Expanding Medicare reimbursement over time to predictably cover more frequent therapy, with less administrative burden for our customers, may be critical to our ability to significantly expand the market penetration of the System One in the home market and to grow our revenue in the future. New regulations particularly impacting home hemodialysis technologies can also negatively impact the rate and extent of any further market expansion of our System One for home hemodialysis. In 2008, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS released new Conditions for Coverage applicable to our customers. These Conditions for Coverage impose water testing requirements on our patients using our PureFlow SL product. These water testing requirements increase the burden of our therapy for our patients and 30 Table of Contents may impair market adoption, especially for our PureFlow SL product. To the extent additional regulations are introduced unique to the home environment, market adoption could be even further impaired. We are in a developing market and we will need to continue to devote significant resources to developing the home market. We cannot be certain that this market will develop, how quickly it will develop or how large it will be. Current Medicare reimbursement rates, at three times per week, limit the price at which we can market our home products, and adverse changes to reimbursement would likely negatively affect the adoption or continued sale of our home products. Our ability to attain profitability will be driven in part by our ability to set or maintain adequate pricing for our products. As a result of legislation passed by the United States Congress more than 30 years ago, Medicare provides broad and well-established reimbursement in the United States for ESRD. With approximately 75% of United States ESRD patients covered by Medicare, the reimbursement rate is an important factor in a potential customer’s decision to use the System One or our other products and limits the fee for which we can sell or rent our products. Additionally, current CMS rules limit the number of hemodialysis treatments paid for by Medicare to three times a week, unless there is medical justification provided by the dialysis facility based on information from the patient’s physician for additional treatments. Most patients using the System One in the home treat themselves, with the help of a partner, up to six times per week. To the extent that Medicare contractors elect not to pay for the additional treatments, adoption of the System One would likely be impaired. The determination of medical justification must be made at the local Medicare contractor level on a case-by-case basis, based on documentation provided by our customers. If daily therapy is prescribed, a clinic’s decision as to how much it is willing to spend on dialysis equipment and services will be at least partly dependent on whether Medicare will reimburse more than three treatments per week for the clinic’s patients. Medicare is switching from intermediaries to Medicare administrative contractors. This change in the reviewing entity for Medicare claims could lead to a change in whether a customer receives Medicare reimbursement for additional treatments. If an adverse change to historical payment practices occurs, market adoption of our System One in the home market may be impaired. We understand that some of our customers may not be able to obtain additional reimbursement for more frequent therapy in all cases, and that there are increased administrative burdens associated with articulating the medical justification for treatments beyond three times a week. Both of these factors will likely negatively impact the rate and extent of any further market expansion of our System One for home hemodialysis. Expanding Medicare reimbursement over time to more predictably cover more frequent therapy, with less administrative burden for our customers, may be critical to our ability to significantly expand the market penetration of the System One in the home market. Additionally, any adverse changes in the rate paid by Medicare for ESRD treatments in general would likely negatively affect demand for our products in the home market and the prices we charge for them. CMS published, on August 12, 2010, the final rule for implementation of a new prospective payment system for dialysis treatment effective January 1, 2011. Under this new ESRD prospective payment system, CMS will make a single bundled payment to the dialysis facility for each dialysis treatment that will cover all renal dialysis services and home dialysis, and will include certain drugs (including erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or ESAs, iron, and Vitamin D). It will replace the current system which pays facilities a composite rate for a defined set of items and services, while paying separately for drugs, laboratory tests, or other services that are not included in the composite rate. The prospective payment system still limits the number of hemodialysis treatments paid by Medicare to three times a week, unless there is medical justification provided by the patient’s physician for additional treatments. Although a stated goal of the prospective payment system is to encourage home dialysis, and the inclusion of drugs into the prospective rate and the retention of a home patient training payment adjustment with a modest update from current levels are intended to support this goal, it is not possible at this time to determine what impact the new payment system or healthcare legislation will have on the adoption of home and/or daily hemodialysis or the price for which we can sell our products. 31 Table of Contents We have limited operating experience, a history of net losses and an accumulated deficit of $308.4 million at December 31, 2010. We cannot guarantee if, when and the extent to which we will become profitable, or that we will be able to maintain profitability if it is achieved. Since inception, we have incurred negative operating margins and losses every quarter. At December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $308.4 million. We expect our operating expenses to continue to increase as we grow our business. While we have achieved positive gross margins for our products, in aggregate, since the fourth quarter of 2007, we cannot provide assurance that our gross margins will improve or, if they do improve, the rate at which they will improve. We cannot provide assurance that we will achieve profitability, when we will become profitable, the sustainability of profitability, should it occur, or the extent to which we will be profitable. Our customers in the System One and In-Center segments are highly consolidated, with concentrated buying power. Fresenius and DaVita own and operate the two largest chains of dialysis clinics in the United States. Collectively, these entities provide treatment to approximately 60% of United States dialysis patients; and this percentage may continue to grow with further market consolidation. DaVita, for example, recently announced its plans to acquire DSI Renal, Inc. With less than 40% of United States dialysis patients cared for by independent dialysis clinics, our market adoption, at least within the United States, would be more constrained without the presence of both DaVita and Fresenius as customers for our System One and In-Center products. Additionally, Fresenius is not only a dialysis service provider, it is also the leading manufacturer of dialysis equipment worldwide. On February 18, 2011 we learned that Fresenius obtained clearance for its 2008K At Home hemodialysis system for use in home chronic therapy in February 2011. DaVita does not manufacture dialysis equipment, but has certain dialysis supply purchase obligations to Gambro, a dialysis equipment manufacturer, under a long-term preferred supplier agreement. Fresenius may choose to offer its dialysis patients only the dialysis equipment Fresenius manufactures, including its recently cleared home hemodialysis system. DaVita may choose to offer their dialysis patients the equipment it contractually agreed to offer in its agreement with Gambro. Fresenius and DaVita may also choose to otherwise limit access to the equipment manufactured by competitors. DaVita is our most significant customer, and we expect it to continue to be, at least for the foreseeable future. Our earlier agreement with DaVita contained certain limited exclusivity rights which restricted our ability to sell the System One in certain markets, and to Fresenius. These restrictions do not exist under our July 2010 Amended and Restated National Service Provider Agreement with DaVita, and we have a growing percentage of our home market sales to Fresenius, which is now our second largest customer in the System One segment. However, we have no assurance that our sales to DaVita or Fresenius will continue to grow, and we cannot predict what impact Fresenius’ recently cleared home hemodialysis system will have on our sales to Fresenius in the home market, or our overall performance in the home market going forward. Given the significance of DaVita and Fresenius as customers in the home market, any adverse change in either’s ordering or clinical practices would have a significant adverse impact on our home market revenues, especially in the near term. DaVita is a key customer for our System One and In-Center product lines. The partial or complete loss of DaVita as a customer would materially impair our financial results, at least in the near term. DaVita is our most significant customer. Sales through distributors to DaVita of products accounted for nearly half of In-Center segment revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, and direct sales to DaVita accounted for approximately 34% of our System One segment revenues during 2010. Further, DaVita is our largest customer in the home market, constituting over 40% of our home hemodialysis patients. Although we expect that DaVita will continue to be a significant customer in the home market, we cannot be certain that DaVita will continue to purchase and/or rent the System One or add additional System One patients in the future. Our contract for needles with DaVita, expiring in December 2013, includes certain minimum order requirements; however, these can be reduced significantly under certain circumstances. Our contract for blood tubing sets with DaVita expired in September 2009. However, in June 2009, we entered into a five year distribution agreement in the United States with Gambro, pursuant to which Gambro will 32 Table of Contents exclusively supply our blood tubing sets, including our ReadySet and the Streamline product lines to DaVita. The partial or complete loss of DaVita as a customer for any of these product lines would adversely affect our business, at least in the near term. We entered into a $40.0 million term loan and security agreement with Asahi in May 2009. We are obligated to pay 50% of the interest on the first day of November and May, beginning on November 1, 2009, and repay the remaining interest and principal upon maturity in May 2013. If we fail to comply with all terms under this agreement, we may go into default, which could trigger, among other things, the acceleration of all of our indebtedness there under or the sale of our assets. In May 2009, we entered into a $40.0 million term loan, with Asahi. The four year term loan, maturing in May 2013, bears interest at 8% annually, payable on the first day of November and May beginning on November 1, 2009, with 50% of the interest deferred to maturity. The term loan is secured by substantially all of our assets. The term loan and security agreement includes certain affirmative covenants including timely filings and limitations on contingent debt obligations and sales of assets. The term loan and security agreement also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment, misrepresentation, breach of covenants, material adverse effects, and bankruptcy. In the event we fail to satisfy our covenants, or otherwise go into default, Asahi has a number of remedies, including sale of our assets and acceleration of all outstanding indebtedness, subject to the rights of holders of senior security interests. Certain of these remedies would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We entered into a two year Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of March 10, 2010, with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB. The terms of this Agreement may restrict our current and future operations, which could affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. On March 10, 2010, we entered into an Agreement with SVB for a $15.0 million revolving line of credit with a maturity date of April 1, 2012. The Agreement is secured by all or substantially all of our assets. In connection with this Agreement, we amended our term loan and security agreement with Asahi to provide for certain amendments, including granting to Asahi junior liens on certain of our assets for so long as the agreement with SVB remains outstanding. Upon termination of all obligations under that facility, Asahi’s security will revert to a security in all assets other than cash, bank accounts, accounts receivable, field equipment and inventory. Borrowings under the Agreement bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to two percentage points (2.00%) above the prime rate (initial prime rate of 4.00%). Pursuant to the Agreement, we have agreed to certain financial covenants relating to liquidity requirements and adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our agreement with SVB. The Agreement contains events of default customary for transactions of this type, including nonpayment, misrepresentation, breach of covenants, material adverse effect and bankruptcy. As of the date hereof, we do not have an outstanding balance under the revolving line of credit. However, were we to draw on the line of credit, in the event we fail to satisfy our covenants, or otherwise go into default, SVB has a number of remedies, including sale of our assets and acceleration of all outstanding indebtedness. Certain of these remedies would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete against other dialysis equipment manufacturers with much greater financial resources and established products and customer relationships, which may make it difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. Our competitors may also introduce new products or features that could impair the competitiveness of our own product portfolio. Our System One in the critical care market competes against Gambro AB, Fresenius Medical Care AG, Baxter Healthcare, B. Braun and others. Our System One in the home market is currently the only portable system specifically indicated for use in the home market in the United States. However, on February 18, 2011 we learned that Fresenius, our second largest customer in the System One segment, with nearly all of those sales in the home market, obtained clearance for its 2008K At Home hemodialysis system for use in home chronic therapy in February 2011. Our product lines in the in-center market compete directly against products 33 Table of Contents produced by Fresenius Medical Care AG, Gambro AB, Nipro, B. Braun, Baxter Healthcare, JMS CO., LTD and others. Our competitors each market one or more FDA-cleared medical devices for the treatment of acute or chronic kidney failure. Each of these competitors offers products that have been in use for a longer time than our System One and are more widely recognized by physicians, patients and providers. These competitors have significantly more financial and human resources, more established sales, service and customer support infrastructures and spend more on product development and marketing than we do. Many of our competitors also have established relationships with the providers of dialysis therapy and, Fresenius owns and operates a chain of dialysis clinics. The product lines of most of these companies are broader than ours, enabling them to offer a broader bundle of products and have established sales forces and distribution channels that may afford them a significant competitive advantage. The market for our products is competitive, subject to change and affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, including increased consolidation of ownership of clinics by large dialysis chains. If we are successful, our competitors are likely to develop products that offer features and functionality similar to our products, including our System One. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may make it more difficult for us to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better reliability, convenience or effectiveness or are offered at lower prices. In addition to the recent clearance of the Fresenius 2008K At Home for use in home chronic therapy, Baxter has a research and development collaboration with DEKA Research and Development Corporation and HHD, LLC, or DEKA, and has recently indicated that it received IDE approval from the FDA and hopes to commence U.S. and Canadian clinical studies of DEKA’s new home hemodialysis system in 2011 and launch in international markets as early as 2011 and obtain regulatory approval for Europe in 2012. Other small companies are also working to develop products for this market. We are unable to predict when, if ever, any of these products may attain regulatory clearance and appear in the market, or how successful they may be should they be introduced, but if additional viable products are introduced to the market, it could adversely affect our sales and growth. We also are unable to predict what impact the recent clearance of a Fresenius home hemodialysis systems will have on our sales to Fresenius or our overall home market performance. Our ability to successfully market our products could also be adversely affected by pharmacological and technological advances in preventing the progression of ESRD and/or in the treatment of acute kidney failure or fluid overload. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments and pharmacological and technological advances, it will be difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. Our continued growth is dependent on our development and successful commercialization of new and improved products. Our future success will depend in part on our timely development and introduction of new and improved products that address changing market requirements. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products or incremental product improvements, we may lose revenues or market share to our competitors, which may be difficult to regain. Our inability, for technological, regulatory or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new or improved products could reduce our growth rate or otherwise damage our business. We cannot assure you that our developments will keep pace with the marketplace or that our new or improved products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to achieve expanded market acceptance of our System One. In the home market, we have to convince four distinct constituencies involved in the choice of dialysis therapy, namely operators of dialysis clinics, nephrologists, dialysis nurses and patients, that the System One provides an effective alternative to other existing dialysis equipment. In the in-center market, we have to convince all of these constituencies, but to a lesser degree, patients, that our blood tubing sets and needles provide an effective alternative to other dialysis disposables. In the critical care market, we have to convince hospital purchasing groups, hospitals, nephrologists, dialysis nurses and critical care nurses that our system provides an effective alternative to other existing dialysis equipment. Each of these constituencies use different considerations in reaching their decision. Lack of acceptance by any of these constituencies will make it 34 Table of Contents difficult for us to grow our business. We may have difficulty gaining widespread or rapid acceptance of any of our products, including the System One, for a number of reasons including: • the failure by us to demonstrate to operators of dialysis clinics, hospitals, nephrologists, dialysis nurses, patients and others that our products are equivalent or superior to existing therapy options; • competition from products sold by companies with longer operating histories and greater financial resources, more recognizable brand names and better established distribution networks and relationships with hospitals or dialysis clinics; • the failure by us to continue to improve product reliability and the ease of use of our products; • limitations on the existing infrastructure in place to support home hemodialysis, including without limitation, home hemodialysis training nurses, and the willingness, cost associated with, and ability of dialysis clinics to build that infrastructure; • the ownership and operation of some dialysis providers by companies that also manufacture and sell competitive dialysis products; • the introduction of competing products or treatments that may be more effective, easier to use or less expensive than ours; • regulations that impose additional burden on patients and their caregivers, such as the recently adopted Medicare conditions for coverage which impose additional water testing requirements in connection with the use of our PureFlow SL; • the number of patients willing and able to perform therapy independently, outside of a traditional dialysis clinic, may be smaller than we estimate; and • the availability of satisfactory reimbursement from healthcare payors, including Medicare. If we are unable to convince additional hospitals and healthcare providers of the benefits of our products for the treatment of acute kidney failure and fluid overload, we will not be successful in increasing our market share in the critical care market. We sell the System One in the critical care market for use in the treatment of acute kidney failure and fluid overload. Physicians currently treat most acute kidney failure patients using conventional hemodialysis systems or dialysis systems designed specifically for use in the intensive care unit, or ICU. We will need to convince hospitals and healthcare providers that using the System One is as effective as using conventional hemodialysis systems or ICU-specific dialysis systems for treating acute kidney failure and that it provides advantages over conventional systems or other ICU-specific systems because of its significantly smaller size, ease of operation and clinical flexibility. In addition, the impact of tightened credit markets on hospitals could impair the manner in which we sell products in the critical care market. Hospitals facing pressure to reduce capital spending may choose to delay capital equipment purchases or seek alternative financing options. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general economic and financial market conditions and such conditions may increase other risks that affect our business. Global macro economic conditions and the world’s financial markets continue to experience some degree of turmoil, resulting in reductions in available credit, foreign currency fluctuations and volatility in the valuations of securities generally. In general, we believe demand for our products in the home and in-center market will not be substantially affected by the changing market conditions as regular dialysis is a life-sustaining, non-elective therapy. However, there is no assurance that future economic changes or global uncertainties would not negatively impact our business, especially the manner and pace in which we sell equipment in the System One segment or delay equipment placements. Hospitals or clinics facing pressure to reduce capital spending may choose to rent equipment rather than purchase it outright, or to enter into other less-capital intensive purchase structures with us, which may, in turn, have a negative impact on our cash flows. 35 Table of Contents The non-cash discounts we have offered to DaVita may lead to reductions in our future net revenues that will fluctuate because the amount of the discount is based upon the number of warrants earned and our stock price. Under our July 22, 2010 agreement with DaVita, we offered DaVita the opportunity to earn pricing discounts based upon the achievement of System One home patient growth targets at June 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013. In order to preserve cash, the discount takes the form of warrants to purchase up to 5.5 million shares of our common stock that become exercisable based on the achievement of certain System One home patient growth targets (reflecting home patients who have remained on contiguous home hemodialysis therapy for at least three full months with the System One) at June 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, and which further require DaVita to continue to grow its home patient census every six months during the term of the agreement. The discount associated with these warrants will be measured at fair value through the date of vesting using a Black-Scholes option pricing model, and is being recognized as a reduction of revenues over the same period as the related product revenues (between seven to ten years) based on the number of warrants expected to vest. The warrants are non-transferable, must be exercised in cash and have an exercise price of $14.22 per share, which is equal to the trailing fifteen day volume weighted average price of a share of NxStage Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Market as of the close of business on July 21, 2010, the day prior to entering into our agreement. The reduction of revenues recorded in connection with these warrants was not significant during 2010, based on our assumptions regarding what tiered level of warrant discounts DaVita is expected to earn. However, there can be no assurance that the value of the discount, and, therefore, the amount of reduction of revenues recorded, will not be higher in the future based upon the level of warrants DaVita actually earns under the agreement, as well as the price of our stock on the date the warrants vest. Should our stock price increase above its current price, the amount of the discount would be increased. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including providing comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under governmental funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Pub. L. No. 111-148) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Pub. L. No. 111-152). Among other initiatives, these bills impose a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of certain medical devices after December 31, 2012. This legislation also applies a productivity adjustment to the Medicare payment rates for dialysis facilities that could cause variable annual decreases in payment rates as of 2012. Outside of the excise tax, which will impact our results of operations following December 31, 2012, and the productivity adjustments, which may impact our operations when the amount of the adjustments are announced, we cannot predict the effect such legislation will have on us. If significant reforms are made to the healthcare system in the United States, or in other jurisdictions, those reforms may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As our business continues to grow, we may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As our business continues to grow, we will need to expand our manufacturing, sales and marketing and on-going development capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various partners, suppliers, manufacturers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure, operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. Such growth could place a strain on our administrative and 36 Table of Contents operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to improve or maintain strong product reliability for our products, our ability to maintain or grow our business and achieve profitability could be impaired. We have not yet achieved our long term reliability objectives for certain of our products, and as a result we continue to incur increased service and distribution costs. This, in turn, negatively impacts our gross margins and increases our working capital requirements. Additionally, product reliability issues associated with any of our product lines could lead to decreases in customer satisfaction and our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and could negatively impact our reputation. We continue to work to improve product reliability for all products, and have achieved some improvements to date. If we are unable to continue to improve product reliability, our ability to achieve our growth objectives as well as profitability could be significantly impaired. We have a significant amount of System One field equipment, and our inability to effectively manage this asset could negatively impact our working capital requirements and future profitability. Because our home market relies upon an equipment service swap model and, for some of our customers, an equipment rental model, our ability to manage System One equipment is important to minimizing our working capital requirements. Both factors require that we maintain a significant level of field equipment of our System One and PureFlow SL hardware. In addition, our gross margins may be negatively impacted if we have excess equipment deployed, and unused, in the field. If we are unable to successfully track, service and redeploy equipment, we could (1) incur increased costs, (2) realize increased cash requirements and/or (3) have material write-offs of equipment. This would negatively impact our working capital requirements and future profitability. If kidney transplantation becomes a viable treatment option for more patients with ESRD, or if medical or other solutions for renal replacement become viable, the market for our products may be limited. While kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for most ESRD patients, it is not currently a viable treatment for most- patients due to the limited number of donor kidneys, the high incidence of kidney transplant rejection and the higher surgical risk associated with older ESRD patients. According to USRDS data, in 2008, approximately 17,400 patients received kidney transplants in the United States. The development of new medications designed to reduce the incidence of kidney transplant rejection, progress in using kidneys harvested from genetically engineered animals as a source of transplants or any other advances in kidney transplantation could limit the market for our products. The development of viable medical or other solutions for renal replacement may also limit the market for our products. We could be subject to costly and damaging product and professional liability claims and may not be able to maintain sufficient liability insurance to cover claims against us. If any of our employees or products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. While we maintain insurance, including professional liability, product and excess liability, claims may be brought against us that could result in court judgments or settlements in amounts that are in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. In addition, due to the recent tightening of global credit and the disruption in the financial markets, there may be a disruption in our insurance coverage or delay or disruption in the payment of claims by our insurance providers. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product or professional liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance. 37 Table of Contents Any product liability or professional liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability or professional liability insurance rates, respectively, or the inability to secure additional insurance coverage in the future. A product liability claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, distracting and expensive to defend and could result in a diversion of management and financial resources away from our primary business, in which case our business may suffer. We maintain insurance at levels deemed adequate by management; however, future claims could exceed our applicable insurance coverage. We maintain insurance for property and general liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, product liability, workers compensation, and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed adequate by management based on our expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage, or our coverage could not cover the applicable claims. We face risks associated with having international manufacturing operations, and if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business could suffer. We operate manufacturing facilities in Germany, Italy and Mexico. We also purchase components, products and supplies from foreign vendors. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these international operations, and we may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges. Significant among these risks are risks relating to foreign currency, in particular the Euro, Peso and Thai Baht. We do not currently hedge our foreign currency transactions. To the extent we fail to control our exchange rate risk, our gross margins and profitability could suffer and our ability to maintain mutually beneficial and profitable relationships with foreign vendors could be impaired. In addition to these risks, through our international operations, we are exposed to costs and challenges associated with sourcing and shipping goods internationally and importing and exporting goods, difficulty managing operations in multiple locations, local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our operations, and health issues, such as pandemic disease risk, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical and import activities. We obtain some of our raw materials, components and finished goods from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. We also obtain sterilization services from a single supplier. The partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause significant production delays, an inability to meet customer demand, and a substantial loss in revenues. We depend upon a number of single-source suppliers for some of the raw materials and components we use in our products. We also depend upon one single-source supplier for certain of our finished goods and a single-vendor for sterilization services. Our most critical single-source supply relationships are with Membrana and Kawasumi. Membrana is our sole supplier of the fiber used in our filters for System One products. Kawasumi is our only supplier of needles and certain blood tubing sets that we sell to our customers. Our dependence upon these and other single-source suppliers of raw materials, components, finished goods and sterilization services exposes us to several risks, including disruptions in supply, price increases, late deliveries, and an inability to meet customer demand. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, or customers switching to competitive products. Any interruption in supply could be particularly damaging to our customers using the System One to treat chronic ESRD and who need access to the System One and related disposables to continue their therapy. Finding alternative sources for these raw materials, components, finished goods and sterilization services would be difficult and in many cases entail a significant amount of time and disruption. In the case of Membrana, for fiber, we are contractually prevented from obtaining an alternative source of fiber for our System One products. Our relationship with Asahi could afford us back-up supply in the event of an inability to supply by Membrana, however, switching to Asahi fiber at this time would likely entail significant delays and difficulties. We do not have the regulatory approvals necessary to use Asahi fiber in our System One cartridge in the United States. Additionally, the performance of Asahi fiber in our System One has not yet been validated. We purchase the majority of our finished goods of ReadySet blood tubing sets and all of our 38 Table of Contents needles from Kawasumi. Kawasumi’s contractual obligation to manufacture blood tubing sets expires in January 2012, with opportunities to extend the term beyond that date. Kawasumi’s contractual obligation to supply needles to us expires in February 2014, with opportunities to extend the term beyond that date. Kawasumi’s contractual obligation to supply needles and blood tubing sets to us can be, at times, less than our forecasted demand. In the event Kawasumi supplies no more than the amount of their required maximum monthly supply, we may not have enough needle or blood tubing set supply to meet the demands of our customers. We maintain a limited extra supply of needles to mitigate against the risk of any intermittent shortfalls in needle supply, and we have the ability to manufacture additional blood tubing sets at our manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico. However, there can be no assurance that any interruption in needle or blood tubing set supply would not impair our business, at least in the near term. Our In-Center segment relies heavily upon third-party distributors. We sell the majority of our In-Center segment products through several distributors, which collectively accounted for substantially all of In-Center revenues during 2010, 2009 and 2008, with Henry Schein and Gambro being our most significant distributors. Our distribution agreement with Henry Schein expires in April 2012. Our distribution agreement with Gambro expires in June 2014. The loss of Gambro or Henry Schein as our distributors for any reason could materially adversely affect our business, at least in the near term. Unless we can demonstrate sufficient product differentiation in our blood tubing set business through Streamline or products that we introduce in the future, we will continue to be susceptible to further pressures to reduce product pricing and more vulnerable to the loss of our blood tubing set business to competitors in the dialysis industry. Our blood tubing set business has historically been a commodities business. Prior to the Medisystems Acquisition, Medisystems competed favorably and gained share through the development of a high quality, low-cost, standardized blood tubing set, which could be used on several different dialysis machines. Our products continue to compete favorably in the dialysis blood tubing set business, but are increasingly subject to pricing pressures, especially given recent market consolidation in the United States dialysis services industry, with Fresenius and DaVita collectively controlling approximately 60% of the United States dialysis services business. Unless we can successfully demonstrate to customers the differentiating features of the Streamline product or products that we introduce in the future, we may be susceptible to further pressures to reduce our product pricing and more vulnerable to the loss of our blood tubing set business to competitors in the dialysis industry. The activities of our business involve the import of finished goods into the United States from foreign countries, subject to customs inspections and duties, and the export of components and certain other products from other countries into Germany, Mexico, Thailand and Italy. To a lesser, but increasing degree, our business also involves the export of finished goods from the United States to foreign countries. If we misinterpret or violate these laws, or if laws governing our exemption from certain duties change, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. We import into the United States disposable medical supplies from Germany, Thailand and Mexico. We also import into the United States disposable medical components from Germany and Italy and export components and assemblies into Mexico, Thailand and Italy. We also import into Mexico components and assemblies from Germany, Italy and Thailand. To a lesser, but increasing degree, our business also involves the export of finished goods from the United States to foreign countries. The import and export of these items are subject to extensive laws and regulations with which we will need to comply. To the extent we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, or fail to interpret our obligations accurately, we may be subject to significant fines, liabilities and a disruption to our ability to deliver product, which could cause our combined businesses and operating results to suffer. To the extent there are modifications to the Generalised System of Preferences or cancellation of the Nairobi Protocol Classification such that our products would be subject to duties, our profitability would also be negatively impacted. 39 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the services of each of our senior executives as well as certain key engineering, scientific, manufacturing, clinical and marketing personnel, the loss of whom could negatively affect the combined businesses. Our success has always depended upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, including our research and development and manufacturing executives and managers. Much of our expertise is concentrated in relatively few employees, the loss of whom for any reason could negatively affect our business. Competition for our highly skilled employees is intense and we cannot prevent the future resignation of any employee. We maintain key person insurance for only one of our executives, Jeffrey Burbank, our Chief Executive Officer. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment We are subject to significant regulation, primarily by the FDA. We cannot market or commercially distribute our products without obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory clearances or approvals. Our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the United States, and in foreign markets we may wish to enter. To market a medical devices in the United States, approval or clearance by the FDA is required, either through the pre-market approval process or the 510(k) clearance process. We have obtained the FDA clearance necessary to sell our current products under the 510(k) clearance process. Medical devices may only be promoted and sold for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. In addition, even if the FDA has approved or cleared a product, it can take action affecting such product approvals or clearances if serious safety or other problems develop in the marketplace. We may be required to obtain 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for additional products, product modifications, or for new indications of our products. Regulatory pathways for such clearances may be difficult to define and could change. For example, we recently completed an approval IDE study intended to support a home nocturnal indication for the System One. Enrollment started in the first quarter of 2008 and we submitted the associated 510(k) to the FDA in 2010. We met our primary safety and efficacy endpoints for the study. Nevertheless, the FDA recently notified us that their standards for what will be required for a home nocturnal clearance may change from what was required in our approval IDE. We continue to discuss with the FDA what the pathway to clearance for our product should be, and are evaluating our next steps. Although we do not see the delay in timing for our home nocturnal clearance as material to our opportunities, we cannot be certain when this clearance will be obtained. We also cannot provide assurance that this or other clearances or approvals might be. Delays in obtaining clearances or approvals could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or modifications to our existing products in a timely manner, which would delay or prevent commercial sales of our products. Although the 510(k) regulation has not been formally changed, the FDA has announced that it is intending to implement modifications to the 510(k) process. Any changes in regulatory policies could have an adverse affect on our ability to sell and promote our products and our business as a whole. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modifications to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires the submission of another 510(k) pre-market notification to address the change. Although in the first instance we may determine that a change does not rise to a level of significance that would require us to make a pre-market notification submission, the FDA may disagree with us and can require us to submit a 510(k) for a significant change in the labeling, technology, performance specifications or materials or major change or modification in intended use, despite a documented rationale for not submitting a pre-market notification. We have modified various aspects of our products and have filed and received clearance from the FDA with respect to some of the changes in the design of our products. If the FDA requires us to submit a 510(k) for any modification to a previously cleared device, or in the future a device that has received 510(k) clearance, we may be required to cease marketing the device, recall it, and not resume marketing until we obtain clearance from the FDA for the modified version of the device. Also, we may be subject to regulatory fines, penalties and/or other sanctions authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In the future, we intend to introduce new products and enhancements and improvements to existing products. We cannot provide assurance 40 Table of Contents that the FDA will clear any new product or product changes for marketing or what the timing of such clearances might be. In addition, new products or significantly modified marketed products could be found to be not substantially equivalent and classified as products requiring the FDA’s approval of a pre-market approval application, or PMA, before commercial distribution would be permissible. PMAs usually require substantially more data than 510(k) submissions and their review and approval or denial typically takes significantly longer than a 510(k) decision of substantial equivalence. Also, PMA products require approval supplements for any change that affects safety and effectiveness before the modified device may be marketed. Delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval will cause delays in our ability to sell our products, which will have a negative effect on our revenues growth. Even if we obtain the necessary FDA clearances or approvals, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. We are subject to the Medical Device Reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to patient death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports of device corrections and removals and adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. Our failure to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • administrative detention, which is the detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refund; • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusal to review pre-market notification or pre-market approval submissions; • rescission of a substantial equivalence order or suspension or withdrawal of a pre-market approval; and • criminal prosecution. Our products are subject to market withdrawals or product recalls after receiving FDA clearance or approval, and market withdrawals and product recalls could cause the price of our stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims or could otherwise harm our reputation and financial results. Medical devices can experience performance problems in the field that require review and possible corrective action by us or the product manufacturer. We cannot provide assurance that component failures, manufacturing errors, design defects and/or labeling inadequacies, which could result in an unsafe condition or injury to the operator or the patient will not occur. These could lead to a government mandated or voluntary recall by us. The FDA has the authority to require the recall of our products in the event a product presents a reasonable probability that it would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Similar regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. We believe that the FDA would request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims and harm our reputation with customers. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with FDA’s Quality System Regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. Our finished goods manufacturing processes, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, or QSRs, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, 41 Table of Contents storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its QSRs through periodic unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. We were inspected by the FDA in the second quarter of 2010, and received no inspectional observations. While all of our previous inspections have resulted in no significant observations, we cannot provide assurance that we can maintain a comparable level of regulatory compliance in the future at our facilities, or that future inspections would have the same result. If one of our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our contract manufacturers fails to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including issuing a public warning letter, shutting down our manufacturing operations, embargoing the import of components from outside of the United States, recalling our products, refusing to approve new marketing applications, instituting legal proceedings to detain or seize products or imposing civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products in a manner not consistent with our products’ cleared indications for use or with other state or federal laws governing the promotion of our products. Our promotional materials and other product labeling must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or other product labeling constitute promotion of an unapproved, or uncleared use, it could request that we modify our materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Other regulatory agencies, federal, state and foreign, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, have issued guidelines and regulations that govern how we promote our product, including how we use endorsements and testimonials. If our promotional materials are inconsistent with these guidelines or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could result in significant fines, costs and penalties. Our reputation could also be damaged and the adoption of our products could be impaired. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products outside the United States. Historically, we have not sold or marketed the System One outside the United States and Canada. In 2009, we began entering into arrangements with distributors to sell the System One and certain of our other products outside of the United States. We are currently selling the System One in Europe and the Middle East, and are assessing other international markets for the System One as well. Our In-Center products are presently sold in the United States as well as in several other countries, through distributors. We presently have CE marking as well as Canadian regulatory authority to sell our System One as well as certain other products in Canada and Europe. However, in order to market directly our products in other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies from country to country and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA clearance. The foreign regulatory approval process includes many of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. FDA clearance does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside the United States, which could negatively affect our overall market penetration. Additionally, any loss of foreign regulatory approvals, for any reason, could negatively affect our business. We have obligations under our contracts with dialysis clinics and hospitals to protect the privacy of patient health information. In the course of performing our business we obtain, from time to time, confidential patient health information. For example, we learn patient names and addresses when we ship our System One supplies to 42 Table of Contents home hemodialysis patients. We may learn patient names and be exposed to confidential patient health information when we provide training on our products to our customer’s staff. Our home hemodialysis patients may also call our customer service representatives directly and, during the call, disclose confidential patient health information. United States federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, in particular individually identifiable information, and restrict the use and disclosure of that information. At the federal level, the Department of Health and Human Services promulgated health information and privacy and security rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. At this time, we are not a HIPAA covered entity. However, we have entered into business associate agreements with covered entities that contain commitments to protect the privacy and security of patients’ health information and, in some instances, require that we indemnify the covered entity for any claim, liability, damage, cost or expense arising out of or in connection with a breach of the agreement by us. If we were to violate one of these agreements, we could lose customers and be exposed to liability and/or our reputation and business could be harmed. In addition, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), enacted in February 2009, expands the HIPAA privacy and security rules, including imposing many of the requirements of those rules directly on business associates and making business associates directly subject to HIPAA civil and criminal enforcement provisions and associated penalties. Many of these requirements went into effect on February 17, 2010. We may be required to make costly system modifications to comply with the HIPAA privacy and security requirements. Our failure to comply may result in criminal and civil liability. Many other federal and state laws apply to the use and disclosure of health information, as well as certain financial information, which could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Such laws are not necessarily preempted by HIPAA, in particular those laws that afford greater protection to the individual than does HIPAA or cover different subject matter. Such state laws typically have their own penalty provisions, which could be applied in the event of an unlawful action affecting health information. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false and fraudulent claims which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenges to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. The Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments that are intended to induce health care professionals or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professionals and health care organizations. In addition, some state statutes, most notably laws in Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Vermont, impose outright bans on certain gifts to physicians. Some of these laws referred to as “aggregate spend” laws or “gift” laws, carry substantial fines if they are violated. Recently, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act was enacted by Congress in 2010 as part of the comprehensive health care reform legislation, and it will require us to begin publicly disclosing certain payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals beginning in 2013. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of medical devices. They also impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. In particular, these laws influence, among other things, how we structure our sales and rental offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. Although we seek to structure such arrangements in compliance with all applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied in specific circumstances. If we were to offer or pay inappropriate inducements to purchase our products, we could be subject to a claim under the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback laws or similar state laws. If we fail to comply with particular reporting requirements, we could be subject to penalties under applicable federal or state laws. 43 Table of Contents Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payments to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, by providing improper financial inducements, or through certain other activities. In providing billing and coding information to customers, we make every effort to ensure that the billing and coding information furnished is accurate and that treating physicians understand that they are responsible for all billing and prescribing decisions, including the decision as to whether to order dialysis services more frequently than three times per week. Nevertheless, we cannot provide assurance that the government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent or that the government will not examine our role in providing information to our customers concerning the benefits of daily therapy. Likewise, our financial relationships with customers, physicians, or others in a position to influence the purchase or use of our products may be subject to government scrutiny or be alleged or found to violate applicable fraud and abuse laws. False claims laws prescribe civil, criminal and administrative penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Moreover, an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. Presently, our marketing efforts have been confined nearly exclusively to the United States. We have had limited activities in Canada with our System One, and in certain other jurisdictions with our In-Center products sold through distributors. In 2009, we began entering into arrangements with distributors to sell the System One and certain of our other products in Europe and the Middle East. We may, in the future, seek to market our products in other markets. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of medical devices is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to supply data that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, it may not be profitable to sell our products outside of the United States, which would negatively affect the long-term growth of our business. Further, reimbursement provided to our products in other jurisdictions could change, positively or negatively. In the event reimbursements were to be negatively changed, such as, for example, in the United Kingdom, our ability to sell our products could be impaired. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and requires companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls, including at foreign controlled subsidiaries. While we have policies and procedures in place designed to prevent noncompliance, we can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Our business activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences. Our research and development programs as well as our manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage. Risks Related to Operations Resin is a key input material to the manufacture of our products and System One cartridge. Oil prices affect both the pricing and availability of this material. Escalation of oil prices could affect our ability to obtain sufficient supply of resin at the prices we need to manufacture our products at current rates of profitability. We currently source resin from a small number of suppliers. Rising oil prices over the last several years have resulted in significant price increases for this material. We cannot guarantee that prices will not continue to increase. Our contracts with customers restrict our ability to immediately pass on these price increases, and we cannot guarantee that future pricing to customers will be sufficient to accommodate increasing input costs. Distribution costs represent a significant percentage of our overall costs, and these costs are dependent upon fuel prices. Increases in fuel prices could lead to increases in our distribution costs, which, in turn, could impair our ability to achieve profitability. We currently incur significant inbound and outbound distribution costs. Our distribution costs are dependent upon fuel prices. Increases in fuel prices could lead to increases in our distribution costs, which could impair our ability to achieve profitability. We have labor agreements with our production employees in Italy and in Mexico. We cannot guarantee that we will not in the future face strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns, grievances, complaints, claims of unfair labor practices, other collective bargaining disputes or in Italy, anti-union behavior, that may cause production delays and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. Our wholly-owned subsidiary in Italy has a national labor contract with Contratto collettivo nazionale di lavoro per gli addetti all’industria della gomma cavi elettrici ed affini e all’industria delle materie plastiche, and our wholly-owned subsidiary in Mexico has entered into a collective bargaining agreement with a Union named Mexico Moderno de Trabajadores de la Baja California C.R.O.C. We have not to date experienced strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns, grievances, complaints, claims of unfair labor practices, other collective bargaining disputes, or in Italy, anti-union behavior, however we cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to such activity in the future. Any such activity would likely cause production delays, and negatively affect our ability to deliver our production commitments to customers, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause our combined businesses and operating results to suffer. Additionally, some of our key single source suppliers have labor agreements. We cannot guarantee that we will not have future disruptions, which could adversely affect our reputation and cause our business and operating results to suffer. We do not have long-term supply contracts with many of our third-party suppliers. We purchase raw materials and components from third-party suppliers, including some single source suppliers, through purchase orders and do not have long-term supply contracts with many of these third-party suppliers. Many of our third-party suppliers are not obligated to perform services or supply products for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We do not maintain large volumes of inventory from most of our suppliers. If we inaccurately 45 Table of Contents forecast demand for finished goods, our ability to meet customer demand could be delayed and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these suppliers, we may be required to change suppliers, which would be time consuming and disruptive and could lead to disruptions in product supply, which could permanently impair our customer base and reputation. Certain of our products are recently developed and we have recently transitioned the manufacturing of certain of these products to new locations. We, and certain of our third-party manufacturers, have limited manufacturing experience with these products. We continue to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. As such, we and certain of our third-party manufacturers have limited manufacturing experience with certain of our products. We are more exposed to risks relating to product quality and reliability until the manufacturing processes for these new products mature. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its use by third parties, we will lose a significant competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our proprietary technology and prevent others from duplicating our products. However, these means may afford only limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of our patents, including those we may license, may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products could be impaired, which could make our products less competitive. We cannot specify which, if any, of our patents individually or as a group will permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. We cannot provide assurance that any pending or future patent applications we hold will result in an issued patent or that if patents are issued to us, that such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. The United States federal courts or equivalent national courts or patent offices elsewhere may invalidate our patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Our patents and patent applications cover particular aspects of our products. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods for treating kidney failure. If these developments were to occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on our sales. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our revenues and market share. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and/or prevent us from using technology that is essential to our products. The medical device industry in general has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patent infringement and intellectual property rights. Products to provide kidney replacement therapy have been available in the market for more than 30 years and our competitors hold a 46 Table of Contents significant number of patents relating to kidney replacement devices, therapies, products and supplies. Although no third party has threatened or alleged that our products or methods infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we cannot provide assurance that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm to our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of the business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenues; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all and which could reduce profitability; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and trade secrets and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover or reverse engineer trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of other companies. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies focused on the development of dialysis products, including our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, damage to our reputation and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price is likely to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early stage companies have historically been particularly volatile. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • timing of market launch and/or market acceptance of our products; • timing of achieving profitability from operations; 47 Table of Contents • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts or the failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • future debt or equity financings; • developments or disputes with key vendors or customers, or adverse changes to the purchasing patterns of key customers; • disruptions in product supply for any reason, including product recalls, our failure to appropriately forecast supply or demand, difficulties in moving products across the border, or the failure of third party suppliers to produce needed products or components; • reports by officials or health or medical authorities, the general media or the FDA regarding the potential benefits of the System One or of similar dialysis products distributed by other companies or of daily or home dialysis; • announcements by the FDA of non-clearance or non-approval of our products, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; • product recalls; • defaults under our material contracts, including without limitation our credit agreement; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • changes in third-party healthcare reimbursements, particularly a decline in the level of Medicare reimbursement for dialysis treatments, or the willingness of Medicare contractors to pay for more than three treatments a week where medically justified; • litigation involving our company or our general industry or both; • announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • our ability to manufacture and supply our products to commercial standards; • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • departures of key personnel; and • investors’ general perception of our company, our products, the economy and general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for 48 Table of Contents appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; • advance notice requirements for nominations of directors or stockholder proposals; and • the requirement that board vacancies be filled by a majority of our directors then in office. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the market by our large existing stockholders, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large number of shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We have 53,718,213 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Except where sales are made pursuant to an effective registration statement, shares held by our affiliates may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which approximates 537,182 shares, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. With the higher trading volumes we have recently observed in our stock, the number of shares that can be sold by our affiliates pursuant to Rule 144 is significantly above the 1% of shares outstanding limitation of Rule 144 as of the time of the filing of this report. At December 31, 2010, subject to certain conditions, holders of an aggregate of approximately 9 million shares of our common stock have rights with respect to the registration of these shares of common stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. If we register their shares of common stock, they can more easily sell those shares in the public market. As of December 31, 2010, 6,874,978 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance under our stock incentive plan, employee stock purchase plan and outstanding stock options. As of December 31, 2010, 6,222,962 shares were subject to outstanding options, of which 3,709,004 were exercisable and can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. We have filed a resale registration statement covering both shares of our common stock that we sold in a May 2008 private placement and shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of a warrant held by DaVita. If the holders of these shares or shares issued pursuant to the terms of the warrant are unable to sell these shares under the respective registration statements, we may be obligated to pay them damages, which could harm our financial condition. Further, these resale registration statements could result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to realize the current trading price of our common stock. In 2008, we sold an aggregate of 9,555,556 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 1,911,111 shares of our common stock in a private placement. We were required to register the common stock and the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we did on August 8, 2008. If the holders of the shares or the accompanying warrant shares are unable to sell such shares or warrant shares under the registration statement for more than 30 days 49 Table of Contents in any 365 day period after the effectiveness of the registration statement, we may be obligated to pay damages equal to up to 1% of the share purchase price per month that the registration statement is not effective and the investors are unable to sell their shares. On July 22, 2010, we issued to DaVita a warrant which, subject to the achievement of certain System One growth targets, may be exercisable for up to a cumulative total of 5,500,000 shares of our common stock. In connection with issuance of this warrant we entered into a registration rights agreement with DaVita, pursuant to which (subject to certain conditions) we have agreed to file, on or prior to April 1, 2011, a registration statement on Form S-3 with respect to the resale by DaVita of any shares of our common stock issued to DaVita under the warrant. We registered the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrant on February 16, 2011 on our automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-170654) filed on November 17, 2010. Investors should be aware that the current or future market price of their shares of our common stock could be negatively impacted by the sale or perceived sale of all or a significant number of these shares that are available for sale pursuant to these registration statements or that will be available for sale in the future. Our outstanding warrants, and the provisions of our Term Loan with Asahi, may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. Warrants held by DaVita and certain investors in our 2008 private placement could result in the issuance of up to 7,052,155 additional shares of common stock. In addition, in the event our Term Loan with Asahi reaches maturity, Asahi may require that all of the principal and interest on the Term Loan that is unpaid as of the maturity date be converted into shares of our common stock, with the number of shares to be determined based upon the average closing stock price of our common stock during the thirty business days preceding the maturity date. The issuance and sale of any of these shares could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders in the form of immediate and substantial dilution in net tangible book value per share. Our executive officers, directors and current and principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting common stock and could limit new stockholders’ influence on corporate decisions or could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and current holders of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially hold, in the aggregate, approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. David S. Utterberg holds approximately 10% and Credit Suisse holds approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock. Although these numbers are lower than they have been historically, due to certain recent selling by larger affiliated stockholders, these stockholders, if acting together, may nevertheless still have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • entrenching our management and/or Board; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. We may grow through additional acquisitions, which could dilute our existing shareholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire other businesses and/or technologies in the future. We may issue equity securities as consideration for future acquisitions that would dilute our existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in 50 Table of Contents connection with future acquisitions, which, if available at all, may place additional restrictions on our ability to operate our business. Acquisitions may involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • management of geographically remote units both in the United States and internationally; • impairment of relationships with partners and customers; • customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; • entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • inaccurate assumptions of the acquired company’s product quality and/or product reliability. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 