ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report and in any documents incorporated in this Report by reference. 16 Risks Related to Our Business We currently have no product revenue and may not be able to obtain sufficient funding to successfully commercialize Northera, our lead product candidate. To date, we have generated no product revenue. Until, and unless, approval is received from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenue. Northera (droxidopa) is our only drug product candidate that has been approved by the FDA. Although Northera was approved for sale in the United States by the FDA in February 2014, it is currently not available for sale and is not anticipated to be available for sale until, at the earliest, the second half of 2014. In order to commercialize Northera we may seek to out-license one or more of our products, or seek additional sources of financing, or both, and such opportunities might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional funds on acceptable terms, we might be unable to successfully commercialize Northera. We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow at least through 2014. We might never achieve profitability or, if we do, we might be unable to maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in commercializing Northera, we expect to incur substantial losses during the commercialization process. From inception through December 31, 2013 we had a loss of $231.5 million. We had net losses of $16.4 million, $31.7 million and $50.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Actual losses will depend on a number of considerations, including: • the cost, pace and level of success of commercialization and marketing efforts for Northera in the U.S ; • the timing and amount of revenue generated from any sales of Northera; • the possible out-licensing or other strategic partnering opportunities for our product candidates; • the requirements of the FDA for post-approval trials for Northera and the related costs thereof; • the costs and requirements to seek regulatory approval for Nothera in additional markets outside the U.S.; • seeking additional regulatory approvals for any of our other product candidates, formulations and indications; • the pace of development of new intellectual property for our existing product candidates; • in-licensing and development of additional product candidates; • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • changes in existing staffing levels. We expect to experience negative cash flow for some time to come as we fund our operating activities. Should we raise additional funds by selling shares of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our current or future development programs or commercialization plans or curtail operations. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. 17 Although we plan to evaluate strategic arrangements that would be beneficial to our stockholders, we might not be successful. We have stated our intent to explore and evaluate all available strategic options to determine the best path forward for our Company and our stockholders. Such options might include out-licensing of our products, other strategic partnering arrangements or the merger or sale of the company. Despite this intent, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully identify any such opportunities that would be acceptable. Moreover, if we are able to identify any acceptable options, we cannot provide assurances that we could be successful in negotiating any such transaction on favorable terms, if at all, or that the terms of any such transaction would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. Such a transaction might also reduce the potential for future profits and/or negatively impact our stock price. Our consideration and evaluation of possible strategic opportunities may impact the timing of the commercial launch of Northera in the United States. While we are currently focused on the evaluation of strategic opportunities following the approval of Northera in the United States, we are also initiating activities in preparation for the commercialization and launch of Northera. While commercialization activities will continue during the evaluation process, our goal is to minimize the time to launch while being opportunistic to any opportunities to enhance shareholder value and the value of Northera. A delay in the timing of the launch of Northera in the United States that results from the consideration of other options, could impact the revenue anticipated from the sales of Northera. Our potential future earnings might be reduced should we decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates. We may decide to out-license one or more of our drug product candidates, reducing future profits available to us. Should we license our drug product candidates to another pharmaceuticals company, it would allow the partner to market and sell our compounds in one or more markets around the world. If either droxidopa or the antifolates are licensed to a strategic partner, the profit available to us may be substantially reduced from what might otherwise be possible should we retain all rights to the products and market and sell them directly. We might not be able to commercialize Northera or any other of our product candidates. As a development stage company, we have not demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of Northera or any other of our product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • formulating and manufacturing products; • developing appropriate administration and compliance processes; and • conducting sales, marketing and distribution activities. Our operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates, including Northera. To date, our operations have largely been limited to organizing and staffing our company, negotiating in-licensing agreements with our partners, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, participating in regulatory discussions with the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies and undertaking preclinical trials and clinical trials of our product candidates. While we had begun preparations for the commercialization of Northera in late 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, these activities were curtailed upon receipt of the CRL in March 2012 and most of the personnel hired for those commercialization activities were terminated in conjunction with our restructuring in July 2012. We currently have no sales and marketing employees other than our recently hired Chief Commercial Officer and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, through employment, consulting relationships or otherwise, the appropriate expertise necessary to successfully commercialize Northera. The label approved by the FDA for Northera may adversely impact our sales potential. The approved label for Northera includes an acknowledgment that our clinical trials results vary, with several studies failing to meet statistical significance in favor of Northera and with only one trial shown to have statistical significance. Moreover, none of the trials show statistical significance beyond two weeks and the label instructs prescribing physicians to monitor patients, keeping them on the drug only if patients continue to show benefit. In addition, the label has a “black box warning” instructing physicians to monitor patients for supine hypertension, advising the physicians ultimately to take the patient off Northera if such hypertension cannot be controlled. Accordingly, this label may discourage doctors from prescribing Northera or continuing to prescribe Northera over an extended period and it might discourage patients from using Northera. Moreover the label might limit Northera’s acceptance among insurance companies and other payers, leading them to limit or restrict insurance coverage and use of the product by patients. Such limitations may include prior written authorization from physicians for patients to use the drug, or a requirement for patients to have failed on midodrine and/or other treatment prior to being prescribed Northera, or restrictions on the duration of use of Northera. As a result, our pricing options might be limited, our sales ramp might be slower than anticipated and we might be unable to reach the level of market penetration we otherwise would have anticipated, each of which might have an adverse impact on sales of Northera. 18 Physicians and patients might not accept and use our drugs. Physicians and patients might not accept and use Northera or any of our other product candidates that might receive marketing approval. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates; • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; • understanding by prescribing physicians of the medical conditions we are attempting to address; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect that sales of our product candidates could generate substantial product revenues for an extended period, the failure of such a drug to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or curtail our operations. Our lack of internal expertise for the commercialization of a drug in the United States and the constantly evolving nature of the regulatory requirements to market a drug in the United States might lead to potential compliance issues in our adherence to federal and state regulations. Such non-compliance might constrain our sales and marketing efforts and reduce, or limit the growth of, our revenue. There are a myriad of federal and state regulations that we must comply with to successfully market Northera in the United States. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements mandated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies can result in administrative or judicial sanctions and/or fines. In the United States, such sanctions could include warning letters, corporate integrity agreements, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution. Such regulations include, but are not limited to, reporting of interactions with and payments made to qualified health care providers, allowed promotional and marketing activities for pharmaceutical products, government pricing calculations and reporting, medical information and communications and manufacturing and clinical practices. While we are aware of the critical importance of compliance with these regulations, the process of training, motivating and managing commercial resources can be complex, especially for a company with rapid growth and limited commercial experience. While we are developing strategies to address this risk, including heavy reliance on experienced third party consultants, there remains a risk of non-compliance. Any punitive consequences of non-compliance might limit the efficiency and effectiveness of any commercialization efforts, resulting in increased costs and/or constrained revenue growth. Products competing with Northera are generic and we expect that Northera will be priced significant higher. Midodrine (ProAmatine®) is currently the only FDA-approved therapeutic for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension but physicians are also known to prescribe fludrocortisone (Florinef®) off-label. Both of these products are generic and we expect to have a significantly higher price for Northera than either of these. Patients who bear all or a significant portion of this price may be unwilling to fill their prescriptions and/or payers may limit their coverage for Northera, requiring additional hurdles for physicians, possibly including prior prescribing of midodrine or other treatment options. In addition to such hurdles, payers may demand higher co-pays from our patients. While we are exploring strategies to assist physicians and patients to navigate through these challenges, we cannot guarantee that Northera will receive significant acceptance or that Northera pricing will be sufficient to overcome inadequate sales volume and the high cost for patient assistance programs. 19 Our commercialization program depends upon third-party contractors who are outside our direct control. We intend to use contracted third-party resources for many aspects of our planned commercial launch of Northera including, but not limited to, a contract sales organization, or CSO, compliance and monitoring assistance, advertising and marketing, price reporting, contracting and channel strategy. Various key middle management executives will also, at least initially, be retained on a contract basis. We believe this is the most expedient way of engaging experienced, professional resources but such resources will not be directly employed by us and may not respond or perform as intended. They might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs, if their performance is substandard or if the FDA or other regulators determine there is inadequate compliance with relevant rules and regulations our revenue growth may be detrimentally impacted and/or we may face punitive action from regulatory authorities. If we cannot successfully enter into new agreements with outside collaborators on acceptable terms, or if we encounter disputes over or cannot renew or, if necessary, amend prior agreements, the commercialization of Northera could be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us or might simply command more attention. If our collaborators assist other entities at our expense, our commercialization program and growth opportunities could be harmed. Our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent clinical research organizations, investigators and other collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. They might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, if their performance is substandard or the FDA determines there are issues upon review of the study data, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. If we cannot successfully enter into new agreements with outside collaborators on acceptable terms, or if we encounter disputes over or cannot renew or, if necessary, amend existing agreements, the development of our drug candidates could be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our drug development program also depends upon other parties who are outside our control. We have licensed certain rights related to droxidopa from DSP and depend upon them for data and support in advancing our clinical program for this compound. Our licensing agreement with DSP grants us an exclusive, sub-licensable license, with certain geographic restrictions, and rights to droxidopa including, but not limited to all information, formulations, materials, data, drawings, sketches, designs, testing and test results, records and regulatory documentation. In addition, DSP is currently the preferred manufacturer of this compound for our clinical programs and commercialization efforts. Without the timely support of DSP, our drug development programs could suffer significant delays, require significantly higher spending or face cancellation. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture any product candidates. We have only limited experience in drug formulation and no experience in drug manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. While we have a contract in place with DSP and another manufacturer for droxidopa for our clinical trials and potential commercialization, we currently have no contract for the commercial scale manufacture of our antifolates or I-3D compounds. We have contracted with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our antifolate clinical trials. Given the recent approval of Northera by the FDA or if any of our current product candidates or any other product candidates that we may develop or acquire in the future receive marketing approval in the U.S. or other markets, we plan to rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to risks, including that: · We might not be able to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. 20 · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any, or limitations in their capacity could limit the timely availability of our product, which could alienate prescribing physicians and/or their patients if we cannot meet their demand for our drugs. · Our contract manufacturers might not perform as agreed or might not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Our contract manufacturers might require financial assistance to increase their capacity levels required for our markets. · Our contract manufacturers have competing clients and/or competing products that vie for production scheduling. Drug manufacturing lead times for droxidopa are long. The increased risk associated with not securing timely production scheduling slots could lead to not having adequate supplies for launch should Northera be approved or facing gaps in commercial supply and “stock outs” after launch. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Each of these risks could delay our commercialization of Northera, the conduct of our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of any of our other product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. Northera has been approved under the FDA’s “Accelerated Approval” program, requiring us to conduct a long-term withdrawal study to establish Northera’s durability of effect. Should we fail to meet enrollment milestones or fail to show statistical significance for the primary end point, the FDA could initiate a process to remove Northera from the market. The FDA has approved Northera under Accelerated Approval whereby short term results have been used to anticipate longer term effect, even though our clinical trials did not provide statistically significant evidence of a long term effect. Under the terms of our approval we are required to conduct additional clinical research to support durability of effect for Northera or the drug could be removed from the market. The approval of Northera stipulates that a large, adequately powered withdrawal study is required to determine whether Northera provides durability of effect for patients remaining on therapy for more than one or two weeks. While specifics of the protocol for this study have not been finalized are still under discussion with the agency, initial discussions would indicate that up to 1,500 patients to power might be required to power such a study at 80% to detect a treatment difference of 0.45 units on the OHSA Item 1 scale. This study will likely require 6 to 7 years to enroll at an estimated cost of $10 - $15 million per year, increasing our development expenses and potentially delaying profitability. We have agreed with the FDA to specific milestone dates for commencing the study, recruiting patients into the study and completing the study. If these milestones are not met or if the study fails to demonstrate durability of effect, the FDA could initiate a process to remove Northera from the market. Should Northera be removed from the market in the United States and with the resulting loss of Northera revenue, the company might have to cease operations or sell itself or its assets under less than favorable terms and that could be detrimental to our shareholders. We might not obtain the necessary European or other regulatory approvals to commercialize Northera outside the United States or to obtain U.S. or any other approvals for our other product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize Northera or other product candidates outside the United States. We will need approvals from the relevant regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain such approvals we must submit an appropriate application for approval to the designated agency in each jurisdiction demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as preclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the regulatory requirements at each such agency typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our products and the related research and clinical programs will result in drugs that these agencies will consider safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. Governmental agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional preclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. Moreover, while we recently did receive approval from the FDA to market Northera in the United States, we might never achieve such approval from the FDA for other product candidates or for other indications for droxidopa. 21 The approval process might also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in agency policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals might: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenue from, a product candidate; • reduce available time during which our intellectual property is protected under various U.S. and foreign patents; • impose costly procedures on us; and • diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all regulatory agency requests, such agencies may reject our applications for approval. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for any of our other product candidates or for Northera outside of the United States. Failure to obtain such approval for our product candidates could undermine our business. We have not determined any additional clinical requirements that may be needed in order to meet the expectations of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, or other foreign regulatory agencies in order to obtain marketing approval for Northera outside the United States. Since an initial discussion several years ago, we have only conducted limited discussions of the specifics of our clinical program with the EMA, and several individual European Union, or EU, countries’ regulatory agencies, and we have not yet determined if our current program for Northera in Neurogenic OH will be acceptable for approval in the EU, or any particular member country. While we continue to believe that the safety data from Study 306B with an extended period of placebo control is better aligned with the requirements as expressed by the EMA previously, we cannot be certain of this. In 2011, we conducted discussions with several EU member country regulatory agencies to better understand their and, derivatively, the EMA’s expectations with regard to their efficacy requirements. However, until we proceed further with those discussions it will not be clear that Study 301 and Study 302 data, along with data from the related extension studies and Study 306B data, will be sufficient for filing in the EU. If not, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials and, regardless, we cannot guarantee that Study 306B data will be sufficient to show a significant symptomatic benefit for patients with Neurogenic OH to support approval or that any subsequent trials will provide adequately favorable data. We and certain of our executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in recently initiated lawsuits that could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention. We and certain of our executive officers were named as defendants in purported class action lawsuits that alleged violations of federal securities laws related to various statements regarding our development of Northera for the treatment of symptomatic Neurogenic OH and the likelihood of FDA approval. On October 10, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina granted our motion to dismiss these lawsuits, with prejudice. On November 8, 2013, the plaintiffs appealed the district court’s judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Briefing of the appeal began in January 2014. On May 2, 2012, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery against the members of our board of directors as of the date of the lawsuit. The complaint generally alleges that, from at least June 2011 through February 2012, the defendants breached their fiduciary duties and otherwise caused harm to Chelsea in connection with various statements related to our development of Northera for the treatment of neurogenic OH and the likelihood of FDA approval. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, attorneys’ fees and other costs. On June 25, 2012, the Court of Chancery entered an Order staying the action until the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina which it did in October 2013. After the dismissal of the class action and the filing of the notice of appeal in that case, plaintiff in this action sought to proceed with the case and the parties entered into a scheduling stipulation in January 2014, subsequently approved by the Court of Chancery, for the briefing of defendants’ motions to stay the action and to dismiss the complaint. 22 We intend to engage in a vigorous defense of the litigation described above. Even if we were to be successful in the defense of the litigation, we could incur substantial costs not covered by our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, suffer a significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any settlement of the litigation could require payments that exceed the limits of our available directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Additional similar lawsuits might be filed. There has been only very limited testing of our I-3D product candidates. Our I-3D product candidates are very early in their development. None of the candidates have had adequate toxicology testing in animals to permit clinical testing and there is no clinical evidence of efficacy for any of these candidates, despite limited similarities with compounds currently marketed by others. Animal toxicology trials on our I-3D compounds may not permit further development of these drugs or we may have to carry out toxicology trials on several compounds before we find one that is appropriate for clinical testing, if at all. Once clinical trials are undertaken, the compound or compounds may not prove adequately safe and efficacious in humans and may not be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Moreover, because of the scarcity of capital and competing priorities within our development program we do not know when we will be able to continue any such testing or commence clinical trials, if ever. We currently have no work underway related to our I-3D product candidate portfolio. There has been virtually no development activity for our antifolate candidates since 2012. While we conducted significant preclinical and phase I and phase II clinical studies on our antifolate portfolio, there has been very little development activity on these compounds since the completion of our phase II study for CH-4051 in 2012. Studies completed so far have not provided unambiguous support regarding the advisability of further study and before any future programs are initiated we would need to carefully assess their likelihood of success and the strength and duration of our intellectual property protection. If additional trials are conducted and even if they are successful our compounds may not be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. For example, because we did not receive orphan drug status from the EMA for droxidopa as a treatment for Parkinson’s disease, our clinical trials for that indication might have to be more involved and take longer to complete and get reviewed than otherwise would have been the case. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials might be delayed by several factors, including: • unforeseen safety issues; • clarification of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected clinical site recruitment; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; 23 • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and • unexpected emergence of competitive drugs against which our compounds might compete for clinical trial resources or need to be tested. In addition, we or the FDA or another governing regulatory agency may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory agency finds deficiencies in the conduct of these or our regulatory submissions. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for our current or any future clinical trials. The results of clinical trials might not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process might fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure could cause us to abandon a product candidate and might delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenue. We intend to explore additional indications for droxidopa, however these programs may not prove successful. We have announced our intent to explore certain additional indications for droxidopa and we may make similar announcements in the future. While trials conducted by DSP for the Japanese market provide evidence of efficacy for certain indications, other indications may be explored for which we have no existing clinical evidence of efficacy. Such trials are likely to be very costly. We do not have market approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for any of these other indications we are exploring and there are no guarantees that additional clinical trials will provide new evidence of efficacy in the targeted indications or permit us to gain market approval from regulatory agencies. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we might not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. The initial market for Northera (neurogenic OH) has well established generic competition. Other markets for droxidopa, such as fibromyalgia, are emerging with new and heavily marketed offerings. The market for our antifolate product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Northera (or in the future, our antifolates or other product candidates that may receive FDA approval) will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products might provide greater therapeutic convenience, efficacy or other benefits for a specific indication than our products or might offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have compounds already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; 24 • launching, marketing and selling drugs; and • post-marketing safety surveillance. Our ability to generate product revenue will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if a product candidate is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage might not be available and reimbursement levels might be inadequate to cover our drug. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product, once approved, market acceptance and our revenue could be reduced. Specifically, not all physicians recognize a separate indication for symptomatic Neurogenic OH and we cannot provide assurances that reimbursement will be approved by the relevant decision makers at healthcare payers. In addition, the U.S. and international healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The laws and regulations governing and issued by the FDA and other healthcare policies might change, and additional government regulations might be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed landmark healthcare legislation. As the rollout of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, continues, we cannot predict, with any certainty, what impact on federal reimbursement policies the continued implementation of requirements under this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically. We anticipate that the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess this legislation and possibly alternative health care reform proposals. The U.S. Congress may adopt additional legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. Cost-containment measures, whether instituted by healthcare providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, healthcare payers might challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales may commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved healthcare products. While the FDA has announced it might seek to remove midodrine from the market, midodrine is expected to continue to be available to patients at the time Northera is launched. In August 2010, the FDA proposed removing midodrine from the market because required post-approval studies to verify the clinical benefit of the drug have not been satisfactorily completed by the manufacturer. In January 2011, the FDA opened a public docket to provide a forum to facilitate communication regarding the conduct of clinical trials needed to support the continued marketing authorization for midodrine. In December 2011, Shire reached an agreement with the FDA to conduct a new set of clinical trials to demonstrate the clinical benefit of midodrine. The agreement requires Shire to complete two additional clinical trials and submit the results of those trials to the FDA by September 2014. Should the FDA determine that Shire has failed to adhere to the terms or timeframes specified in this agreement, or that the agreed upon trials fail to verify clinical benefit, Shire has agreed to have FDA withdraw the marketing approval for midodrine and has waived the right for a public hearing. It is still not clear what action the FDA will take following the conclusions of the renewed clinical trials; however, the recent agreement with Shire is likely to ensure the availability of midodrine in the near term. Furthermore, the FDA has never removed a drug under similar circumstances and we can provide no assurance that they will do so in the case of midodrine. 25 Developments by competitors might render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Companies that currently sell compounds used for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension include Apotex, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Impax Laboratories, Sandoz, Teva, Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Pfizer and Shire. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis include, but are not limited to, Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Hoffmann-La Roche, Johnson & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Mylan Laboratories and UCB. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Our success, competitive position and future revenue will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications or those patent applications that we may file or license in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Moreover, we cannot predict the degree of patent protection that will be afforded by those patent applications that do result in issuance. Although we generally seek the broadest reasonable patent protection available for our proprietary compounds, we may not be able to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of any particular compound and may be limited to protecting a new method of use for the compound or otherwise restricted in our ability to prevent others from exploiting the compound. If our patent protection for any particular compound is limited to a particular method of use or indication such that, if a third party were to obtain approval of the compound for use in another indication, we could be subject to competition arising from off-label use. Moreover, our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. If a third party legally challenges our patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our U.S. or foreign patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our patents or other intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar products. In addition, we do not have composition of matter patent protection on droxidopa which recently received market approval by the FDA for Neurogenic OH under the brand name Northera. While the orphan drug designation for this compound by the FDA will provide seven years of market exclusivity, we will not be able to exclude other companies from manufacturing and/or selling this compound beyond that timeframe. We may not obtain or maintain the benefits associated with orphan drug status, including market exclusivity. During 2007, the FDA granted orphan drug status to Northera for the treatment of symptomatic Neurogenic OH in patients with primary autonomic failure, DBH deficiency and non-diabetic autonomic neuropathy and the EMA granted orphan medicinal product designation for the treatment of patients with pure autonomic failure and patients with multiple system atrophy. We may not receive the benefits associated with orphan drug designation (primarily the benefit providing for seven years of market exclusivity in the U.S. and ten years or market exclusivity in the EU from the respective dates of approval), including as a result of failure to maintain orphan drug designation, or should a competing product that is the same chemical entity and has an orphan designation for the same disease indication become approved for marketing or commercial distribution in the EU market before Northera. Under U.S. and EU rules for orphan drugs, if such a competing product reaches the market before ours does, the competing product could potentially obtain a scope of market exclusivity that limits or precludes Northera from being sold in the U.S. for seven years or from being sold in the EU for ten years. Also, in the EU, even after orphan medicinal product status has been granted, that status is re-examined shortly prior to the product receiving any regulatory approval. The EMA must be satisfied that there is evidence that the product offers a significant benefit relative to existing therapies, in order for the therapeutic product to maintain its orphan medicinal product status. Accordingly, our product candidates will have to re-qualify for orphan drug status prior to any potential product approval in the EU. In the U.S., orphan drug marketing exclusivity can be overcome by a different sponsor for the same drug with a showing of clinical superiority, greater safety or a major contribution to patient care in a head-to-head trial. 26 Claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights may result in liability or damages or prevent or delay our developmental and commercialization efforts. If a third party were to file a patent infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent infringed, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any necessary license may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain themselves as a result. We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights. Failure to protect our patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Existing patents and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses might not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. Some jurisdictions have laws that permit the government to force a patentee to grant a license to a third party for commercialization of a patented product if the government concludes that the product is not sufficiently developed or not meeting the health needs of the population. Such compulsory licensing laws are very rarely invoked outside of South America and Africa. In addition, a number of countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. 27 Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a new drug, it is possible that any related patent may expire before any of our product candidates can be commercialized or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. In either case, this would reduce any advantages of the patent. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under current and future license agreements, we could lose license rights which would adversely affect our business. We license patent and/or certain other rights from DSP for droxidopa. Similarly, we are a party to a license agreement with Dr. M. Gopal Nair under which we license patent rights for our antifolates. We may enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various milestone payments, royalty payments and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. If a licensor challenges our license position, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our license agreement with DSP reserves rights to the licensor in Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan which preclude our commercialization of droxidopa in those markets. Our license agreement with Dr. Nair reserves rights to the licensor in India. Therefore, we will not commercialize our products in these respective markets. If we are unable to enforce trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, our competitive position might be harmed. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors, as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents are unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, it is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements might not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we might have to: • obtain licenses, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon an infringing drug candidate; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. We might not successfully manage our growth. Through 2013 we have remained a small, development stage company. With the FDA approval of Northera, our success will depend in large part upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. As of March 10, 2014, we had 19 full-time, permanent employees. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. 28 We might be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities might involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures, and those of our partners, for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state, local and, where applicable, foreign laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products might require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. As a small company, we are highly dependent on our executive officers, including our principal scientific, regulatory, and medical officers and advisors. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in commercialization and development programs, loss of any future customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. As a small company, we currently employ qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and administration. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. In the third quarter of 2012, we instituted a corporate reorganization in which we eliminated virtually all sales and marketing personnel whom we had previously hired in anticipation of the commercial launch of Northera. To commercialize Northera on our own, we will need to hire or contract with appropriate personnel in the areas of sales and marketing, medical affairs, distribution, IT, regulatory and compliance. Competition is intense for qualified individuals in all areas of pharmaceutical development and commercialization and we cannot be certain that any search for such personnel will be successful. We might incur substantial liabilities and might be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we might incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Although we carry clinical trial insurance, we might not be able to renew such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or our intended collaborators may be unable to obtain such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, that indemnification might not be available or adequate should any claim arise. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The prices at which shares of our common stock are traded will likely be volatile. You should expect the prices at which our common stock is traded to be volatile. Since the commencement of trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2006, the price of our common stock has varied from a low of $0.70 to a high of $8.41. The expected volatile price of our stock will make it difficult to predict the value of your investment, to sell your shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of other factors might also affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: 29 • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delays or failures in initiating, completing or analyzing preclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; • success or delays in commercialization of our product candidates; • market acceptance of our product candidates; • obtaining, delays in or rejection of regulatory approvals for our products or our competitor’s products by U.S. or foreign regulators; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • should the market price of our shares drop below $5 per share, stock exchange rules that prevent our stockholders from using shares of our common stock as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts or certain institutional investors’ restrictions against investing in our shares; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for pharmaceutical companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that might have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors might seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have never paid dividends and do not intend to pay cash dividends. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance our future operations. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. Currently, six financial analysts publish reports about us and our business. We do not control these or any other analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our shares of common stock. As of March 10, 2014, we had 78,433,916 shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for public sale, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. The market price of our common stock may decline if our common stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur. In addition, we have outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 8,049,209 shares of our common stock. If these options are exercised and the shares issued upon exercise are sold, the market price of our securities may also decline. These factors also could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our securities. 30 We are authorized to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue blank check preferred stock with rights potentially senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock. The issuance of a class of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our shares, or making a change in control of us more difficult. Our executive officers and directors may sell shares of their stock, and these sales could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of our stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Our executive officers and directors may sell stock in the future, either as part, or outside, of trading plans under SEC Rule 10b5-1. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 