Item 1A. Risk Factors Our flexibility is limited by the terms of our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility prevents us from taking certain actions and requires us to meet certain tests. These limitations and tests include, without limitation, the following: • limitations on liens; • limitations on incurrence of debt; • limitations on making dividends and distributions; • provisions for mandatory prepayments; • limitations on transactions with affiliates; • limitations on guarantees; • limitations on asset sales; • limitations on sale-leaseback transactions; • limitations on acquisitions; • limitations on changes in our business; • limitations on mergers and other corporate reorganizations; • limitations on loans, investments and advances, including investments in joint ventures and foreign subsidiaries; • financial ratio and condition tests; and • increases in our cost of borrowings or inability or unavailability of additional debt or equity capital. These restrictions and tests may prevent us from taking action that could increase the value of our securities, or may require actions that decrease the value of our securities. In addition, we may fail to meet the tests and thereby default under our senior secured credit facility. If we default on our obligations, our lenders could require immediate payment of the obligations or foreclose on collateral. If this happened, we could be forced to sell assets or take other action that would reduce the value of our securities. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our total debt as of June 30, 2007 was $124.8 million. Our ability to service our debt depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Short term working capital availability is affected by the seasonality of our business which at times limits our availability under our credit facilities. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us 14 Table of Contents under our senior secured credit facility, or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt obligations. We depend on the economies and the demographics of the local communities that our newspaper publications serve and we are also susceptible to general economic downturns, which could adversely affect our advertising and circulation revenue and our profitability. Our advertising revenue and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenue depend upon a variety of factors specific to the communities that our publications serve. These factors include, among others: • local economic conditions in general; • the economic condition of the retail segments of the communities that our publications serve; • the popularity of our publications; • the size and demographic characteristics of the local population; • pricing fluctuations in local and national advertising; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums; and • changing consumer lifestyles. Our newspapers operate in six suburban Atlanta counties — Gwinnett, Rockdale, Newton, Butts, Henry and Clayton counties, and Dougherty County in southwest Georgia. If the local economy, population or prevailing retail environment of a community served by our publications experiences a downturn, our publications, revenue and profitability in that market would be adversely affected. Our advertising and circulation revenue are also susceptible to negative trends in the general economy that affect consumer spending. The advertisers in our newspapers and related publications are primarily retail businesses, which can be significantly affected by regional or national economic downturns and other developments. In the newspaper industry, we rely on advertising and paid circulation revenue, for which we face competition from other newspapers, some significantly larger than us, as well as other communications, media and web-based sources. Our newspapers and other publications are located primarily in small metropolitan and suburban areas in the United States. Our newspapers operate in six suburban Atlanta counties — Gwinnett, Rockdale, Newton, Butts (Jackson Progress-Argus), Henry and Clayton counties, and Dougherty County in southwest Georgia. Revenue from Newspaper Publishing primarily consists of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shoppers, television, radio, direct mail, Internet and other forms of communication and advertising media. Competition for newspaper advertising expenditures is based largely upon advertiser results, readership, advertising rates, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation and readership is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price and the effectiveness of its distribution. In recent years, web sites dedicated to recruitment, real estate and automotive sales have become significant competitors of our newspapers for classified advertising. Our six Atlanta suburban newspapers face competition from the larger metropolitan newspaper, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, which serves the entire Atlanta metropolitan area and much of the state of Georgia. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution is significantly larger than our newspapers. Both advertising and circulation revenues are being affected by consumer trends, including declining newspaper buying by young people and the migration to other available forms of media for news. 15 Table of Contents Any significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint. Historically, the industry price of newsprint has been cyclical and volatile. The average price of newsprint was $643 per metric ton during the twelve months ended June 30, 2007. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2007, we consumed approximately 9,700 metric tons of newsprint, the cost of which represented approximately 12.4% of the total revenue from Newspaper Publishing during such period. We have a contract with Abitibi Consolidated to purchase newsprint at prices pegged to industry averages. Our contract with Abitibi expires on December 31, 2012. Significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be unable to identify or integrate acquisitions of daily and non-daily newspapers and similar publications successfully or on commercially acceptable terms and such failure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made several acquisitions and in the future may make additional acquisitions of daily and non-daily newspapers and similar publications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms. In making acquisitions, we compete for acquisition targets with other companies, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Our failure to acquire suitable candidates, or the consummation of a future acquisition at a price or on other terms that prove to be unfavorable, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include: • diverting management’s attention; • incurring significant additional liabilities, capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to integrate the operations, facilities and personnel of the acquired newspapers and publications; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel of the acquired newspapers and publications. We may not be able to manage acquired newspapers and publications successfully. If we are unable successfully to implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired. We may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on the integration of operations rather than more profitable areas. We may need to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions and to pay for increased capital expenditures following any acquisitions. However, debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and equity financing could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our development of new publications for our markets is subject to risks and uncertainties, and such new publications may not ultimately be successful. We may develop new publications for our existing markets. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the development of new publications. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new publications may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as the development of competitive alternatives and market response, may cause new publications to be unsuccessful. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the regulations that govern our business might increase competition or make it more difficult or costly to operate our business or comply with such changes. The FCC has broad authority to promulgate and enforce regulations that could adversely affect our Newspaper Publishing segment. The FCC’s rules prohibit or place limitations on common ownership, including common officers or directors, of companies publishing newspapers or operating television stations in the same market. Because of ongoing administrative and judicial proceedings, these rules will remain in effect for the foreseeable future. As a result, our ability to acquire newspapers in areas served by Gray’s television stations could be foreclosed or limited to the term remaining on the television station’s license, a period not to exceed eight years. In certain instances, the ownership rules could result in our being required to divest our ownership interest in a newspaper whose city of publication is encompassed by the Grade A service contour of a station owned or acquired by Gray. We may be required to take an impairment charge on our goodwill, which may have a material effect on the value of our total assets. As of June 30, 2007, the book value of our goodwill was $87.8 million in comparison to total assets of approximately $174 million. Not less than annually, we are required to evaluate our goodwill to determine if the estimated fair value of goodwill is less than its book value. If the estimated fair value of goodwill is less than book value, we will be required to record a non-cash expense to write down the book value of the goodwill to the estimated fair value. We cannot make any assurances that any required impairment charges will not have a material effect on our total assets. We may incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, or associated with environmental liabilities, and if such expenses significantly exceed our expectations, our operating income may be adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We may incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions. As an owner and operator of real estate, we may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of those substances on our property and may not be limited to the value of the property. We also may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability, related to facilities or sites to which we have sent hazardous waste materials. In addition, situations may give rise to material environmental liabilities that have not yet been discovered. New environmental laws (or regulations or changes in existing laws) may be enacted that require significant expenditures by us. If the resulting expenses significantly exceed our expectations, our operating income may be adversely affected. Our Collegiate Marketing business derives a significant portion of its revenue from short-term agreements for the provision of sports and marketing services and the inability to renew or extend these agreements may adversely affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from agreements with advertisers and sponsors that have up to a three-year term. These agreements require us to provide a range of services, including marketing, broadcasting, publishing, advertising and sponsorship. We may not be successful in attracting new sponsors or obtaining contract renewals, which often is affected by national and local economic conditions, the relative popularity of collegiate sports, collegiate team performance records, demographic characteristics of our markets and other factors, which are outside of our control. Our revenues would be adversely affected by the non-renewal of a significant number of these agreements, our inability to attract additional sponsors or the loss or reduction of revenues from several of our major clients. 17 Table of Contents Our business relies on contracts with NCAA Division I universities and athletic conferences and our inability to renew or extend these contracts would adversely affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from marketing services agreements with NCAA Division I universities and athletic conferences. A number of these agreements are with public universities, which are required by law to solicit public bids for, and renewals of, these agreements. We may not be successful in obtaining contract renewals or securing additional agreements with the universities or athletic conferences and our revenues would be adversely affected by the nonrenewal of a significant number of university or athletic conference contracts. We may lose money on some of our contracts because they provide for the payment of a guaranteed rights fee to other parties. A significant number of our agreements with universities and athletic conferences require us to pay such universities and athletic conferences a guaranteed rights fee for our right to provide marketing. Our ability to generate revenues depends, in part, on the performance of the collegiate teams that participate in the events for which they provide sponsorship opportunities. Significant shortfalls in revenues under these agreements without a corresponding reduction in expenses could affect our profitability and therefore adversely affect our results of operations. Our failure to maintain continuing relationships with the NCAA, university athletic directors and coaches, and the associations with which we do business may diminish our revenues. Our business is dependent in part on our relationships with the NCAA, the athletic directors and coaches of the various sports teams at the universities with which we do business, and the boards of directors of the associations that we manage, in securing agreements, extensions and renewals of existing agreements, and networking to attract opportunities for new relationships. The termination of certain of these relationships could diminish our business and prospects. The seasonal nature of our Collegiate Marketing business could adversely affect our quarterly results. We will experience quarterly variations in revenues and operating income in our Collegiate Marketing business as a result of many factors, including the seasonal nature of sporting events, the timing of clients’ marketing campaigns and the implementation of new products or services. This business typically generates the majority of its revenue and operating profits during the college basketball and football seasons, i.e., the period beginning in September and concluding in March. The business’ revenues typically decline during the college basketball and football off-seasons. Our quarterly results of operations in our Collegiate Marketing business also may fluctuate based upon competitive factors and general economic conditions. In connection with certain contracts, we could incur costs in periods prior to recognizing revenues under those contracts. Our Collegiate Marketing business is very competitive and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources that may prevent us from capturing new markets or expanding our presence in our current markets. As a provider of marketing services, we compete with suppliers of traditional advertising in broadcast and print media as well as with other marketing service providers and internal marketing department programs. This competition is very intense and highly fragmented, and some competitors of ours have capabilities and resources comparable to, and greater than, ours. As a result, the financial strength of these competitors may prevent us from capturing these markets and expanding our presence in our current markets. 18 Table of Contents Our Association Management business is not an accredited association management company by, for example, the American Society of Association Executives Accreditation Program, and our inability to become accredited could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain our current contracts or secure future association management business. Our Association Management business relies on five major contracts with associations that do not currently require that we be an accredited association management company. If any of our existing association clients require accreditation in the future, the contracts with such associations could be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to secure new association business in the future may depend on our ability to become an accredited association management company. The accreditation process involves sending key executives through established management educational programs and submitting the management company to an audit process, which includes a review of how the management company manages finances, membership and association business. Another important component of the audit is to demonstrate the financial stability of the parent company and that most of the management company’s revenues are derived from the management business. We are in the process of obtaining such accreditation; however, we can give no assurances that we will become accredited. Our success depends on our senior management. Our success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our senior management. As a result, if any of these individuals were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successors gain the necessary experience. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results, as our Newspaper Publishing business previously operated as a subsidiary or division of Gray. Our historical financial information for the years ended December 31, 2004, and 2005, included in this Form 10-K may not be representative of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows had our Newspaper Publishing business operated as an independent company rather than as a subsidiary or division of Gray during the periods presented or of our results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the future. This results from the following: • in preparing this historical financial information, adjustments and allocations were made because Gray did not account for this business as, and this business never operated as, a stand-alone business for any periods presented until the Spin-off on December 30, 2005; and • the information does not reflect many changes that have occurred in our funding and operations as a result of the Spin-off and the Merger. The agreements governing our relationship with Gray following the Spin-off were negotiated while we were a subsidiary of Gray and, as a result, we cannot assure you that the agreements are on terms favorable to us. The agreements governing our relationship with Gray following the Spin-off were negotiated in a parent-subsidiary context and were negotiated in the overall context of our separation from Gray. At the time of these negotiations, our officers were employees of Gray, and each of the members of our board of directors was also a member of Gray’s board of directors. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the terms of these agreements were the same as the terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between third parties. These agreements include a separation and distribution agreement, as amended, a tax sharing agreement and a lease agreement. 19 Table of Contents After the separation, certain members of management and directors of Gray and TCM, who are also shareholders of both companies, may face issues with respect to their relationships with Gray and TCM when the interests of Gray and TCM are not aligned or with respect to the allocation of their time between Gray and TCM. The management and directors of Gray and TCM own our common stock and both Gray Class A common stock and Gray common stock. For instance, J. Mack Robinson is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gray and the beneficial owner of approximately 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and all of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock. Robert S. Prather, Jr. is the President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of Gray and the Chairman and a director of TCM. Hilton H. Howell, Jr. is the Vice Chairman and a director of Gray and a director of TCM. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential issues when Gray’s and TCM’s management and directors face decisions where our interests and Gray’s interests are not aligned. For example, potential issues could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Gray and us regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between Gray and us. These agreements include a separation and distribution agreement, as amended, a tax sharing agreement and a lease agreement. Each of Mr. Prather and Mr. Howell may also face issues with regard to the allocation of his time between Gray and us. The market price for our common stock may be volatile and stockholders may not be able to sell our common stock at a favorable price or at all. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including: • variations in our quarterly results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. Change in control provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and discourage a takeover, even when such attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders or on terms where our stockholders may be able to receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of us, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions authorizing our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock. The DGCL also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 