Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the near-term, the success of our business will depend on many factors, including the following risks: • We are dependent on the success of our only product candidate, Acetavance, and upon our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize, this product candidate on a timely basis; • The clinical trial and other data we plan to submit in our applications for regulatory approval may not be adequate to support the safety and efficacy of Acetavance; • We rely on third parties to assist us with our regulatory submission and other important aspects of our product development program, and our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize Acetavance may be delayed if their performance is substandard or delayed, which would increase our costs, and result in the loss of potential revenues; • Changes made in scaling-up or transferring the manufacturing processes for Acetavance may result in a lack of comparability between our commercial product and the material used in our clinical trials, which could delay regulatory approval of this product candidate, substantially increase our costs and result in the loss of potential revenues; • We rely on our contract manufacturer to complete pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities, comply with stringent regulatory requirements and, if Acetavance is approved and commercialized, to produce Acetavance in the volumes that we require, and if our contract manufacturer fails to perform adequately or on a timely basis, our costs would be substantially increased and we may lose potential revenues; • Acetavance may be found to have undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization; • Recent publicity concerning the safety of certain drug products has resulted in heightened scrutiny by the FDA in the process of approving new drugs, which could delay or limit regulatory approval of Acetavance; • We expect intense competition from existing products, as well as any new products that may emerge that provide different or better therapeutic alternatives for our targeted indications, which could diminish the commercial potential of Acetavance; • The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Acetavance are limited to a specific intravenous formulation of acetaminophen, and our market opportunity for this product candidate may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations that may be developed by competitors; and • We will require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our commercialization efforts and result in the loss of substantial revenues. Each of these factors, as well as other factors that may impact our business, are described in more detail in the following discussion. Although the factors highlighted above are among the most significant, any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time, and you should consider all of the factors described when evaluating our business. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are largely dependent on the success of our only product candidate, Acetavance, and we cannot be certain that this product candidate will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no drug products for sale and cannot guarantee that we will ever have marketable drug products. We currently have only one product candidate under development, and our business success depends on its successful development and commercialization. Any significant delay or failure to obtain the required regulatory approval for Acetavance would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For example, since obtaining the North American and European rights to Omigard, we devoted substantial effort and financial resources towards the completion of our development program for this product candidate, including approximately $55.8 million in research and development expenses for the period of May 2004 through December 31, 2008, plus additional marketing costs, salaries and related personnel costs. In March 2009, we announced that we were discontinuing any further development of Omigard due to the failure of our Phase III clinical trial to meet its primary endpoint, and our belief that the results of this clinical trial would not support an NDA submission. As a result, we also announced that we were implementing cost reduction measures and restructuring our operations, including an anticipated workforce reduction, and that we would incur impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 of approximately $2.4 million on our manufacturing equipment for Omigard. We have not submitted a new drug approval application, or NDA, to the FDA or received marketing approval for Acetavance. Any failure or significant delay in obtaining approval of our product candidate may prevent or delay our efforts to commercialize and derive revenues from our product candidate, and have a substantial adverse impact on our business. We may not receive regulatory approval for Acetavance, or its approval may be delayed. The process for obtaining approval of an NDA is time consuming, subject to unanticipated delays and costs, and requires the commitment of substantial resources. We currently plan to submit an NDA for Acetavance in the second quarter of 2009. As a company, we have no experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may delay or impede our ability to obtain such approvals. Once our NDA has been submitted, the FDA may request additional information prior to accepting the submission for filing. Any delay in the acceptance of the NDA for Acetavance will result in a delay in receiving regulatory approval, and in our ability to derive revenues from sales of this product candidate, if approved. If our NDA is accepted for filing, the FDA will begin an in-depth review of the submissions to determine whether to approve Acetavance for commercial marketing for the indications we have proposed. If the FDA is not satisfied with the information we provide, the agency may refuse to approve our NDA or may require us to perform additional nonclinical or clinical studies or provide other information in order to secure approval. The FDA may delay, limit or refuse to approve our NDA for many reasons, including: • the information we submit may be insufficient to demonstrate that Acetavance is safe and effective; • the FDA’s interpretation of nonclinical, clinical, manufacturing or, pharmacovigilance data from use of this product candidate outside of the U.S., may differ from our own interpretation of such data; • the FDA may determine that the clinical trials of Acetavance that were submitted in support of our NDA were not conducted in full compliance with the applicable protocols for these studies, as well as with applicable regulations and standards; or • the FDA might not approve the processes or facilities that will be used for the commercial manufacture of Acetavance, if approved. In addition, our NDA may not be approved, or approval may be delayed, as a result of changes in FDA policies for drug approval during the review period. For example, although many products have been approved by the FDA in recent years under Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, objections have been raised to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If challenges to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) are successful, the agency may be required to change its interpretation, which could delay or prevent the approval of our NDA for Acetavance. 23 Table of Contents While the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, or PDUFA, specifies that the FDA has 10 months from acceptance to complete its initial review of a standard NDA, the review process may be extended by three months or longer if the FDA requests or we elect to provide additional information. For example, according to the FDA, the median total approval time for standard applications for approval of new drug and biological products during 2006 was approximately 14 months. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval will be obtained for Acetavance, and any failure or significant delay in obtaining the required approval would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The clinical trial data we submit in our NDA for Acetavance may fail to adequately support its safety and efficacy, which could prevent or significantly delay its regulatory approval. The data collected from clinical trials conducted by BMS that we plan to include in our NDA submission for Acetavance will be taken from databases that have been checked against original clinical study records that have been made available to us, but may not have been fully reconciled against medical records kept at the clinical sites. As a result of auditing and performing additional analyses of the data from the earlier clinical trials of this product candidate, the previously reported results, or the interpretation of those results, may change, which may negatively impact the suitability of such data for inclusion in applications for marketing authorization of Acetavance. As a result, we do not know whether the data will be adequate to support regulatory approval of Acetavance or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire. The rejection of data from any of the clinical trials required by regulatory authorities to support our NDA for Acetavance candidates could negatively impact our ability to obtain marketing authorization for this product candidate and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. All of the clinical trials that we intend to submit in our NDA for Acetavance to support the safety and efficacy of this product candidate in adults have been completed. We completed enrollment in the last required trial in our clinical development plan for Acetavance in children in December 2008. We currently plan to submit our NDA for this product candidate in the second quarter of 2009. We expect our NDA will include data from clinical trials of this product candidate performed by BMS in support of European regulatory approvals. Although the FDA has advised us that one of these studies, a clinical trial in patients undergoing total hip and knee replacement, may be submitted to demonstrate efficacy of Acetavance in the treatment of post-operative pain, the FDA may reject the results of this study if it determines that the study was not conducted in accordance with requisite regulatory standards and procedures. Furthermore, although we have audited or verified the accuracy of most of the primary clinical data provided by BMS for this study, as well as for other BMS studies, not all of the original medical records kept at the clinical sites have been made available to us. If the FDA does not agree with our interpretation of the results of clinical trials of Acetavance that we have conducted, or with our interpretation of the results of studies performed by BMS that we include in our NDA submission, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for this product candidate may be delayed, limited or otherwise adversely impacted. Our failure to obtain U.S. regulatory approval for Acetavance in a timely manner, or at all, will adversely affect our business and our stock price. We rely on third parties to assist us with our clinical trials, regulatory submissions and other important aspects of our product development programs. If the performance of these third parties is substandard, or if they fail to successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the regulatory approval of our products may be delayed or prevented. We have relied extensively upon independent clinical investigators, medical institutions, contract laboratories, contract research organizations, regulatory, statistical and other consultants, to perform important functions related to the conduct of our clinical trials, the collection and analysis of data, and the preparation of regulatory submissions for Acetavance. If the performance of any of these third parties is substandard, if they do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, or if they are inspected by the FDA and are found not to be in compliance with our study protocols or with applicable regulations, including FDA guidelines for the conduct of clinical trials, the submission of our NDA for Acetavance may be delayed, or we may be prevented from obtaining regulatory approval for this product candidate. 24 Table of Contents If changes made in scaling-up or transferring the manufacturing processes for Acetavance result in a lack of comparability between our commercial product and the material used in our clinical trials, we may be required to perform additional non-clinical or clinical studies, which would delay the approval of our NDA for this product candidate, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We do not manufacture Acetavance, and do not currently plan to develop any capacity to do so. Instead, we rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture and perform important pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for this product candidate. As part of the process for obtaining regulatory approval, our contract manufacturers will need to demonstrate that the facilities, equipment and processes used to manufacture this product for potential commercial distribution are capable of consistently producing a product that meets all applicable quality criteria, and that is comparable to the product that was used in our clinical trials. For example, although clinical trials were conducted using product manufactured by BMS, if Acetavance is approved, we plan to purchase this product from Baxter Healthcare Corporation, or Baxter, for commercial distribution. If the FDA determines that any of the changes we have made in scaling-up or transferring the manufacturing processes for Acetavance has resulted in a lack of comparability between the product used in our clinical trials and the product that will be manufactured for commercial distribution, we may be required to complete additional non-clinical studies or clinical trials in order to obtain regulatory approvals for Acetavance, which would increase our costs, result in the loss of potential revenues and adversely affect our business. If our contract manufacturer fails to complete pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities for Acetavance on a timely basis or fails to comply with stringent regulatory requirements, we will face delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, this product candidate, and our costs will increase. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems may include unanticipated failures of production equipment, limited availability of critical materials, equipment and facilities, inadequate yields, shortages of qualified personnel, and quality control difficulties. In order to receive regulatory approval to commercialize this product candidate, we will need to provide the FDA with comprehensive information regarding the validation of the manufacturing facilities, equipment and processes of our third party manufacturers. Additionally, our contract manufacturer must produce specific batches of Acetavance that demonstrates acceptable stability under various conditions and for commercially viable lengths of time. The production of these batches requires complex, highly specialized equipment and materials, and involves the development of new processes and methods that may take a substantial amount of time to implement. Any delays in the availability of stability data, whether due to scheduling issues, equipment or process failures, materials shortages, or other reasons, may cause delays in the submission of applications for regulatory approval of Acetavance, and consequent delays in receiving FDA approval. Additionally, the FDA will conduct inspections of our manufacturer’s facilities from time to time, including as part of its review of our marketing application for Acetavance. If our manufacturer is not in compliance with cGMP requirements, the approval of our marketing application may be delayed, existing product batches may be recalled or otherwise compromised, and we may experience delays in the availability of this product candidate for commercial distribution. If the third party manufacturer upon whom we rely fails to produce Acetavance in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the commercialization of this product candidate or be unable to meet market demand, and may lose potential revenues. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. We have entered into a 25 Table of Contents development and supply agreement with Baxter for the completion of pre-commercialization manufacturing development activities and the manufacture of commercial supplies of the finished Acetavance. Any termination or disruption of our relationships with Baxter may materially harm our business and financial condition, and frustrate any commercialization efforts for this product candidate. We are currently negotiating with suppliers for the commercial supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for Acetavance, If we need to change to another manufacturer or significantly change the manufacturing processes for this product candidate, we may be required to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical or clinical testing, which could increase our costs and cause delays in our ability to obtain regulatory approval. Additionally, we may not be able to establish or maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms for any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire. If the commercial manufacturers upon whom we rely to manufacture Acetavance, and any other product candidates we may in-license, fail to deliver the required commercial quantities on a timely basis at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. All manufacturers of Acetavance and any other product candidates we may license or acquire must comply with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations, including cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, and we have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations. The FDA and comparable international regulatory authorities must inspect and approve the facilities and processes of our contract manufacturers, and any delays in obtaining approval of our contract manufacturers could cause delays in the availability of our product candidates for commercial distribution. In addition, our contract manufacturers and their facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA. A failure to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Acetavance may have undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization. If concerns are raised regarding the safety of a new drug as a result of undesirable side effects identified during clinical testing, the FDA may decline to approve the drug at the end of the NDA review period and issue a letter requesting additional data or information prior to making a final decision regarding whether or not to approve the drug. The number of such requests for additional data or information issued by FDA in recent years has increased, and resulted in substantial delays in the approval of several new drugs. Undesirable side effects caused by this product candidate could result in the issuance of a request for additional data or information in response to our NDA applications, denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing this product candidate and generating revenues from their sale. For example, the adverse events observed in the Acetavance clinical trials completed to date include transient liver enzyme elevations, nausea or vomiting, allergic reactions, and pain or local skin reactions at the injection site. When used in excess of the current guidelines for administration, acetaminophen has an increased potential to cause liver toxicity. While the rate of adverse events in our clinical trials was comparable between the group of patients who received Acetavance and those who were in the placebo or control groups and, as a result, we do not expect the administration of acetaminophen in intravenous form will result in an increased risk of toxicity to the liver compared with an equivalent dose of acetaminophen administered orally, we cannot be certain that increased liver toxicity or other drug-related side effects will not be observed in future clinical trials, or as a result of sales of the same formulation of intravenous acetaminophen by BMS in Europe and other countries, or that the FDA will not require additional trials or impose more severe labeling restrictions due to liver toxicity or other concerns. 26 Table of Contents If Acetavance receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by this product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, specific warnings or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may suspend or withdraw their approval of the product, or require it to be removed from the market; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; or • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of Acetavance or could substantially increase our commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Even if Acetavance receives regulatory approval, it may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. If any such restrictions or requirements are imposed on Acetavance, our potential revenues from this product candidate could be adversely affected. For example, the label ultimately approved for Acetavance or any other product candidate that we may license or acquire, if any, may include restrictions on how such products may be used, and may not include one or more of our intended indications. Acetavance and any other product candidates we may license or acquire will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements with respect to the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, it may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If Acetavance or any other product candidates we may license or acquire fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such as current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; • impose other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Even if Acetavance receives regulatory approval in the U.S., we may never receive approval or commercialize it outside of the U.S. Our rights to Acetavance are limited to the U.S. and Canada. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding 27 Table of Contents non-clinical testing, manufacturing, safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that this product candidate may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of this product candidate and have an adverse effect on product sales and potential royalties, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Recent publicity concerning the safety of certain drug products has resulted in heightened scrutiny by the FDA in the process of approving new drugs, which could delay or limit any regulatory approvals we may obtain for Acetavance. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, the FDA, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, grants significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the new law authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. It also significantly expands the federal government’s clinical trial registry and results databank, which we expect will result in significantly increased government oversight of clinical trials. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate these and other provisions of the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA in its review of data from our clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny, particularly with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. If the FDA requires us to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials prior to approving Acetavance, our ability to obtain approval of this product candidate will be delayed. If the FDA requires us to provide additional clinical or preclinical data following the approval of Acetavance, the indications for which this product candidate is approved may be limited, and our efforts to commercialize Acetavance may be otherwise adversely impacted. We expect intense competition in the territories in which we have rights to Acetavance, and new products may emerge that provide different or better therapeutic alternatives for our targeted indications. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of Acetavance from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render Acetavance obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render Acetavance obsolete or noncompetitive. We intend to seek marketing authorization for Acetavance for the treatment of acute pain and fever in adults and children, which will compete with well-established products for this and similar indications. Competing products available for the treatment of pain include opioids such as morphine, fentanyl, meperidine and hydromorphone, each of which is available generically from several manufacturers, and several of which are 28 Table of Contents available as proprietary products using novel delivery systems. Ketorolac, an injectable non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, or NSAID, is also available generically in the U.S. from several manufacturers. Competing products available for the treatment of fever in the hospital setting include acetaminophen administered orally and rectally, aspirin and NSAIDs, which may be administered orally, topically or intravenously. During the time that it will take us to obtain regulatory approval for Acetavance, if at all, we anticipate that several additional products may be developed for the treatment of acute pain, including other injectable NSAIDs, novel opioids, new formulations of currently available opioids, long-acting local anesthetics and new chemical entities as well as alternative delivery forms of various opioids and NSAIDs. Competitors may seek to develop alternative formulations of this product candidate that address our targeted indications that do not directly infringe on our in-licensed patent rights. For example, we are aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications covering various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen, including intravenous formulations, as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. The commercial opportunity for Acetavance could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • development resources, including personnel and technology; • clinical trial experience; • regulatory experience; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize this product candidate. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, useful and less costly than ours and may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help develop or commercialize this product candidate in markets outside the U.S. If Acetavance does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited. The commercial success of Acetavance will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community and coverage and reimbursement for Acetavance by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of Acetavance or any other product candidate we may license or acquire will depend on a number of factors, including: • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling, including potential limitations or warnings for Acetavance that may be more restrictive than oral formulations of acetaminophen; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for Acetavance could reduce the marketing impact of any superiority claims that we could make following FDA approval; • limitations inherent in the approved indication for Acetavance compared to more commonly-understood or addressed conditions; and • potential advantages over, and availability of, alternative treatments, including, in the case of Acetavance, a number of products already used to treat acute pain in the hospital setting. Our ability to effectively promote and sell Acetavance and any other product candidates we may license or acquire in the hospital marketplace will also depend on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to 29 Table of Contents produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective buying power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital marketplace will also depend on our ability to effectively promote our product candidates to group purchasing organizations. We will also need to demonstrate acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, as well as relative convenience and ease of administration. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with our product candidates. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. We have never marketed a drug before, and if we are unable to establish an effective commercial infrastructure, we will not be able to successfully commercialize Acetavance. In the U.S., we plan to build our own sales force to market Acetavance directly to physicians, nurses, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and third-party payors. The acquisition or development of a hospital-focused sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure for our domestic operations will be expensive and time consuming and, if not completed on time, could delay the launch of any approved products and otherwise negatively impact our commercialization efforts. Also, because we plan to begin hiring key sales and marketing personnel and implementing other pre-commercialization activities prior to the date on which we know whether or not Acetavance will be approved, we will incur significant commercialization costs for this product candidate before we know when or if it will be approved. Moreover, we may not be able to hire a sales force that is sufficient in size or has adequate expertise. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate any product revenue, may experience increased expenses, and may never become profitable. We will need to obtain FDA approval of our proposed product name, Acetavance, and any failure or delay associated with such approval may adversely impact our business. Any name we intend to use for Acetavance will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of the potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to the product name, Acetavance, we may be required to adopt an alternative name for this product candidate. If we adopt an alternative name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications for Acetavance and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. If the FDA delays approval of the proposed product name we may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize this product candidate. If the government or third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate coverage and payment rates for Acetavance or any future products we may license or acquire, if any, or if hospitals choose to use therapies that are less expensive, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. In particular, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for certain surgeries and other treatment therapies they perform. Because this amount may not be based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use therapies which are less expensive when compared to our product candidates. 30 Table of Contents Accordingly, Acetavance or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if approved, will face competition from other therapies and drugs for these limited hospital financial resources. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to the satisfaction of hospitals, other target customers and their third-party payors. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in December 2003, Congress enacted a limited prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. Under this program, drug prices for certain prescription drugs are negotiated by drug plans, with the goal to lower costs for Medicare beneficiaries. In some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing negotiated with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. In the U.S., we expect that there will be an increase in federal and state proposals to implement pricing controls for prescription drugs, and new legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our product candidates are approved for marketing. Such legislation could result in the exclusion of Acetavance and any other product candidates we may license or acquire from coverage and reimbursement programs, or lower the prices we would receive for our product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of any approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms, which would negatively impact our profitability. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to Acetavance from others, we could lose the ability to continue to develop and commercialize this product candidate. In March 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with BMS relating to Acetavance for the U.S. and Canada. Because we have in-licensed the rights to this product candidate from a third party, if there is any dispute between us and our licensor regarding our rights under our license agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize this product candidate may be adversely affected. Any uncured, material breach under our license agreement could result in our loss of exclusive rights to our product candidate and may lead to a complete termination of our related product development efforts. If BMS breaches the underlying agreement under which we sublicense the rights to Acetavance, we could lose the ability to develop and commercialize this product candidate. Our license for Acetavance is subject to the terms and conditions of a license from SCR Pharmatop to BMS, under which BMS originally licensed the intellectual property rights covering Acetavance. If BMS materially breaches the terms or conditions of this underlying license from SCR Pharmatop, and neither BMS nor we adequately cure that breach, or BMS and SCR Pharmatop otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach by BMS or disputes with SCR Pharmatop could result in a loss of, or other material adverse impact on, our rights under our license agreement with BMS. While we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by BMS, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed by SCR Pharmatop, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license from SCR Pharmatop to BMS could result indirectly in our loss of exclusive rights to our Acetavance product candidate and may lead to a complete termination of our product development and any commercialization efforts for Acetavance. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of February 27, 2009, we had 55 full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and 31 Table of Contents development activities, prepare for the commercialization of Acetavance, if approved. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage the activities associated with the collection, review and analysis of data from our clinical trial programs for Acetavance; • manage the substantial additional resources that are required to prepare and successfully file an NDA for Acetavance during the second quarter of 2009, including a significant number of consultants, CROs and other service providers; • ensure that our consultants, CROs and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results, and meet expected deadlines; • continue to carry out our own contractual obligations to our licensors and other third parties; • prepare to hire, train and deploy an effective commercial organization in anticipation of the potential approval of Acetavance, and to establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support that organization; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management, particularly Theodore R. Schroeder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, James B. Breitmeyer, M.D., Ph.D., our Executive Vice President, Development and Chief Medical Officer, and William R. LaRue, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Schroeder, Dr. Breitmeyer and Mr. LaRue, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. 32 Table of Contents We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for Acetavance or other product candidates we may license or acquire and may have to limit their commercialization. The use of Acetavance and any other product candidates we may license or acquire in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $15.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. However, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidate in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Proposed legislation may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the U.S., including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S., which could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. Legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the U.S., which may include re-importation from foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the U.S. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could decrease the price we receive for any approved products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. For example, BMS markets Acetavance in Europe and other countries principally under the brand name Perfalgan. Although Perfalgan is not labeled for sale in the U.S. and we have an exclusive license from BMS and its licensor to develop and sell Acetavance in the U.S., it is possible that hospitals and other users may in the future seek to import Perfalgan rather than purchase Acetavance in the U.S. for cost-savings or other reasons. We would not receive any revenues from the importation and sale of Perfalgan into the U.S. 33 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on our ability to identify and acquire or in-license products and if we do not successfully identify and acquire or in-license related product candidates or integrate them into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities. We in-licensed the rights to each Acetavance, from a third party who conducted the initial development of this product candidate. Acetavance is our only product candidate. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a pipeline of product candidates by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our focus on the hospital marketplace. Future in-licenses or acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturer must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturer’s activities and, to a lesser extent, our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our product candidate and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturer are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed clinical trials for Acetavance could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or 34 Table of Contents security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidate may be delayed. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Acetavance are limited to a specific intravenous formulation of acetaminophen, and our market opportunity for this product candidate may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations that may be developed by competitors. The active ingredient in Acetavance is acetaminophen. Patent protection for the acetaminophen molecule itself in the territories licensed to us, which include the U.S. and Canada, is not available. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as Acetavance so long as the competitors do not infringe any process or formulation patents that we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, SCR Pharmatop. We are aware of a number of third-party patents in the U.S. that claim methods of making acetaminophen. If a supplier of the API for our Acetavance product candidate is found to infringe any of these method patents covering acetaminophen, our supply of the API could be delayed and we may be required to locate an alternative supplier. We are also aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications covering various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. For example, Injectapap, a liquid formulation of acetaminophen for intramuscular injection, was approved by the FDA for the reduction of fever in adults in March 1986, although it was subsequently withdrawn from the market by McNeil Pharmaceutical in July 1986. The number of patents and patent applications covering products in the same field as Acetavance indicates that competitors have sought to develop and may seek to market competing formulations that may not be covered by our licensed patents and patent applications. In addition, the Canadian patent applications that we have in-licensed have yet to be examined by the Canadian Patent Office. Thus, they may issue with claims that cover less than the corresponding in-licensed U.S. patents, or simply not issue at all. The commercial opportunity for Acetavance could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop an alternative formulation of acetaminophen outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. We depend on our licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of our intellectual property and have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devotes on our behalf, or whether any financial difficulties experienced by our licensors could result in their unwillingness or inability to secure, maintain and enforce patents protecting our intellectual property. We depend on our licensor, BMS, and its licensor SCR Pharmatop, to protect the proprietary rights covering Acetavance and we have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that BMS or SCR Pharmatop devote on our behalf, or the priority they place on, maintaining patent rights and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. Either BMS or SCR Pharmatop, depending on the patent or application, is responsible for maintaining issued patents and prosecuting patent applications. SCR Pharmatop is under a contractual obligation to BMS to diligently prosecute their patent applications and allow BMS the opportunity to consult, review and comment on patent office communications. However, we cannot be sure that SCR Pharmatop will perform as required. Should BMS decide it no longer wants to maintain any of the patents licensed to us, BMS is required to afford us the opportunity to do so at our expense. However, we cannot be sure that BMS will perform as required. If BMS does not perform, and if we do not assume the maintenance of the licensed patents in sufficient time to make required payments or filings with the appropriate governmental agencies, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights. Moreover, either BMS or SCR Pharmatop may experience serious difficulties related to their overall business or financial stability, and they may be unwilling or unable to continue to expend the financial resources required to maintain and prosecute these patents and patent applications. While we intend to 35 Table of Contents take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. BMS has the first right to prosecute a third-party infringement of the SCR Pharmatop patents, and has the sole right to prosecute third-party infringement of the BMS patents. We will have the ability to cooperate with BMS in third-party infringement suits involving the SCR Pharmatop patents. It is possible that SCR Pharmatop or BMS could take some action or fail to take some action that could harm the SCR Pharmatop patents. In certain instances, we may be allowed to pursue the infringement claim ourselves. Our licensors may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and our licensors could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the U.S. or other countries. Our licensors are not obligated to defend or assist in our defense against third-party claims of infringement. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on defense of such third-party claims of infringement. For a third-party challenge to the SCR Pharmatop in-licensed patents relating to Acetavance, we will have some ability to participate in either SCR Pharmatop’s or BMS’ defense thereof. In the case that neither party elects to defend the third-party challenge, we may have the opportunity to defend it. For a third-party challenge to the in-licensed BMS patents relating to Acetavance, BMS has the sole right to defend such challenge. If it chooses not to defend such challenge, we may have the right to renegotiate or terminate the license regarding the in-licensed BMS patents. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we or our licensors may not be successful in defending claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. Because it is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for Acetavance or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire and the methods we use to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; 36 Table of Contents • our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our product candidates or technologies; • it is possible that none of the pending patent applications licensed to us will result in issued patents; • the issued patents covering our product candidates may not provide a basis for commercially viable active products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their earliest effective filing date. Consequently, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications on our product candidates. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect our drug market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our product candidates. Even if patents issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our licensors, employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our licensors or we fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for Acetavance or any other product candidate we may license or acquire, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation would harm our business. Our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell Acetavance or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire depends upon our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general fields of pain treatment and cover the use of numerous compounds and formulations in our targeted markets. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we and our licensors may not be successful in defending intellectual property claims by third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any 37 Table of Contents litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that Acetavance may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that Acetavance may inadvertently infringe. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their products or technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a competitor’s patent; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it would not be required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history. We have focused primarily on in-licensing and developing Acetavance and our former product candidate, Omigard, with the goal of supporting regulatory approval for these product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in May 2004, including net losses of $57.1 million, $51.7 million and $52.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $171.5 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our development expenses to decrease over the next few years due to the significant completion of our clinical development program for Acetavance, and the discontinuation of our development program for Omigard. However, our expenses to support regulatory approval and product manufacturing are expected to increase in connection with activities required to prepare and submit an NDA for Acetavance during the first half of 2009. Further, we expect to incur increased pre-commercialization expenses during the second half of 2009 as we prepare for the market launch of Acetavance. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval for Acetavance, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as continued development expenses. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. 38 Table of Contents We currently have no source of revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. To date, we have not generated any revenue from our development stage product candidates, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • successfully complete our collection, review and analysis of data from our clinical trials of Acetavance in preparation for submitting an NDA for this product candidate; • obtain regulatory approvals for Acetavance, or any other product candidates that we may license or acquire; • manufacture commercial quantities of Acetavance, if approved, at acceptable cost levels; and • develop a commercial organization and the supporting infrastructure required to successfully market and sell Acetavance, if it is approved. Even if Acetavance is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with its commercialization. We also do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability for at least several years after generating material revenues, if ever. If we are unable to generate revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in May 2004 and have only been conducting operations with respect to Acetavance since March 2006 and our discontinued Omigard product candidate since July 2004. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, in-licensing and conducting product development activities, including clinical trials and manufacturing development activities, for Acetavance and Omigard. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize a product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. We will need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing products for use in the hospital setting, conducting clinical trials, establishing outsourced manufacturing relationships and successfully manufacturing and marketing drugs that we may develop is expensive. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and continue to collect, review and analyze clinical data from our clinical trials to support regulatory approval of marketing applications for Acetavance; • continue our development activities; • qualify and outsource the commercial-scale manufacturing of our products under cGMP; and • commercialize Acetavance, if approved by regulatory authorities. In February 2009, we completed a private placement of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock, raising aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $86.6 million. We believe that with the proceeds of this financing, and our existing cash and cash equivalent balance as of December 31, 2008, we have sufficient funds to meet our projected operating requirements for, at a minimum, the next eighteen months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources faster than we currently expect. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the rate of progress and costs of our efforts to prepare for the submission of an NDA for Acetavance and any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, and the potential that we may need to conduct additional clinical trials to support applications for regulatory approval; 39 Table of Contents • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights associated with our product candidates, including any such costs we may be required to expend if our licensors are unwilling or unable to do so; • the cost and timing of completion of outsourced commercial manufacturing supplies for each product candidate; • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements that we may establish; and • the success of the commercialization of our products. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies, but we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash and investment balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • the timing of milestone payments required under our license agreement for Acetavance; • our execution of other collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • our addition, modification or termination of clinical trials or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to Acetavance or future development programs; • any product liability or intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory developments affecting Acetavance or the product candidates of our competitors; and • if Acetavance receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying hospital demand for this product candidate and wholesalers’ buying patterns. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 40 Table of Contents Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. For example, in February 2006, we entered into a $7.0 million loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation, and in December 2007, we amended this agreement and secured an additional $15.0 million loan from the same parties and GE Business Financial Services Inc. Our amended loan and security agreement contains a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including required financial reporting, limitations on the disposition of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. To secure our performance of our obligations under our amended loan and security agreement, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property assets, to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the amended loan and security agreement could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors are required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits may be limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2008, we have generated federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately 41 Table of Contents $131.9 million, and federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Our net operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in 2024 for federal purposes and 2014 for state purposes if we have not used them prior to that time, and our federal tax credits will begin expiring in 2024 unless previously used. Our state tax credits carryforward indefinitely. Additionally, our ability to use any net operating loss and credit carryforwards to offset taxable income in the future will be limited under Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383 if we have a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a three-year period. We have not completed an analysis as to whether such a change of ownership has occurred, but in such an event, may be limited to the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Any such annual limitation may significantly reduce the utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits before they expire. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession and fears of a possible depression. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in October 2006, and an active trading market may not be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our amended loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Business Financial Services Inc. restricts our ability to pay cash dividends. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For example, the volatility in the overall capital markets has reached unprecedented levels during 2008, which affected most equity securities. This market volatility could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense. The trading prices for our common stock during 2008 ranged from a high of $15.00 to a low of $4.39. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors or the economy as a whole; 42 Table of Contents • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • market reaction to the discontinuation of our development program for Omigard and related restructuring activities; • FDA or international regulatory actions, including significant delays in receiving, or the failure to receive, regulatory approval for Acetavance; • failure of Acetavance, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and concerns by investors that such fluctuations may occur in the future; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • health care reform legislation, including measures directed at controlling the pricing of pharmaceutical products, and third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may now be able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. For example, we have agreed to register 18,059,691 shares of our common stock, including shares underlying warrants, in connection with a PIPE financing completed in February 2009. Once the registration statement covering these shares is declared effective by the SEC, all of these shares generally may be freely sold in the public market, subject to volume and other limitations applicable to our affiliates. We may be liable for liquidated damages to holders of the shares if the registration statement is not declared effective by May 19, 2009 (if it does not become subject to review by the SEC), or by June 18, 2009 (if it becomes subject to review by the SEC). The amount of the liquidated damages is 1% per month, subject to an aggregate cap of 8% per calendar year, of the aggregate purchase price of the shares (but not the warrant shares) then held by the purchasers that are registrable securities. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. In addition, our directors and executive officers may in the future establish programmed selling plans under 43 Table of Contents Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates may exercise control over stockholder voting matters in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. As of February 27, 2009, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates together controlled approximately 51.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will collectively be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets, and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our amended loan and 44 Table of Contents security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, Oxford Finance Corporation and GE Business Financial Services Inc. restricts our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 