ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Changes and developments in the structure of the health insurance system in the United States could harm our business. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, its relative role in financing health care delivery and health insurance carriers’ use of, and payment of commissions to, agents and brokers to market individual and family health insurance plans. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. These health care reform laws contain provisions that have and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways. Among several other provisions, they include a mandate requiring individuals to be insured or face tax penalties; a mandate that certain employers offer their employees group health insurance coverage or face tax penalties; requirements relating to employer contribution to employee health coverage; prohibitions against insurance companies using pre-existing health conditions as a reason to deny an application for health insurance; prohibitions on rescission of health insurance; prohibitions on lifetime coverage limits; requirements for guaranteed renewability of health insurance plans; health insurance premium setting guidelines; limitations on deductibles and cost-sharing; medical loss ratio requirements that require each health insurance carrier to spend a certain percentage of their premium revenue on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality and, if they do not, to provide rebates to policyholders; minimum benefit levels for health insurance plans; establishment of state and/or federal health insurance exchanges to facilitate access to, and the purchase of, health insurance; open enrollment periods for individual health insurance; assistance for member run health insurance issuers; creation of multi-state health insurance plans to be offered on the exchanges and with oversight from the Office of Personnel Management; requirements for uniform disclosure relating to the costs and benefits of health insurance; government subsidized high risk pools; and subsidies and cost-sharing credits to make health insurance more affordable for those below certain income levels. Many aspects of health care reform do not go into effect until 2014, although certain provisions currently are effective, such as medical loss ratio requirements for individual, family and small business health insurance, a prohibition against insurance companies using pre-existing health conditions as a reason to deny the application of children for health insurance and a requirement that persons 26 years of age and younger be able to stay on a parent’s health insurance plan. Healthcare reform legislation requires various departments of the executive branch to adopt regulations implementing its provisions. In addition, state governments have adopted, and will continue to adopt, changes to their existing laws and regulations in light of federal healthcare reform legislation and regulations. Challenges to the constitutionality of health care reform legislation have been initiated in the federal courts. The challenges center upon the constitutionality of the mandate to purchase health insurance. Decisions on the issue have been inconsistent and the United States Supreme Court has decided to review these matters on appeal. It is not possible to determine how the Supreme Court will rule. The implementation of health care reform could increase our competition; reduce or eliminate the need for health insurance agents or demand for the health insurance for individuals, families or small businesses that we sell; decrease the number of health insurance plans that we sell as well as the number of health insurance carriers 9 Table of Contents offering them; cause health insurance carriers to apply more rigorous underwriting standards (until provisions in health care reform legislation limiting underwriting go into effect in 2014) or change the benefits and/or premiums for the plans they sell; or cause health insurance carriers to reduce the amount they pay for our services or change our relationship with them in other ways, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, the manner in which the federal government and the states implement health insurance exchanges and the process for receiving subsidies and cost-sharing credits could result in individuals not being able to receive subsidies and cost-sharing credits if they purchase their health insurance outside the health insurance exchanges, substantially increase our competition, cause a substantial reduction in our membership base and as a result the commission revenue we receive and substantially reduce the number of individuals, families and small businesses that purchase insurance through us, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, cost and benefit information relating to the health insurance plans we sell will become more readily accessible, which could facilitate additional competition beyond the competition we would face from health insurance exchanges themselves. Various aspects of health care reform also could cause health insurance carriers to determine to limit the type of health insurance plans we sell and the geographies in which we sell them, to exit the business of selling insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction, to eliminate certain categories of products or attempt to move members into new plans for which we receive lower commissions, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The medical loss ratio requirements that are a part of health care reform will harm our business. The federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act enacted in March 2010 and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 contain provisions requiring health insurance carriers to maintain specified medical loss ratios. The medical loss ratio requirements for both individual and family and small business health insurance are effective for calendar year 2011 and later years and, among other things, require health insurance companies to spend 80% of their premium revenue in each of their individual and small group businesses on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality. The medical loss ratio requirement for Medicare Advantage plans is 85% and goes into effect in 2014. If a health insurance carrier fails to meet medical loss ratio requirements, the health insurance carrier is required to rebate a portion of its premium revenue to its members to make up for the difference. Carrier reaction to the individual and family medical loss ratio requirements has been to significantly reduce the commissions we receive in connection with the sale of these plans. These commission rate reductions have and will continue to significantly impact our business and operating results beginning in 2011. We previously estimated the amount by which our average individual and family plan base commission rate changed to be a decline from just over 10% of premium to just below 7%. The estimate of the change in the average rate was calculated by applying the changes in the first and subsequent year commission rates to our membership as of the end of the third quarter of 2010, as if all changes were effective immediately for all individual and family health insurance plan members. The commission rate changes applied prospectively to applicable commissions earned on or after January 1, 2011 and the majority of the changes applied only to commissions earned on new members approved in 2011 and thereafter. For the majority of members that were approved prior to the effective date of the commission rate changes, we continue to be paid commissions at the rates in effect prior to the changes. As a result, the new estimated average base commission rate is phasing in over time. We expect our overall individual and family health insurance commission rate structure to stabilize by early 2013 based on information currently available. Health insurance carriers may determine to further reduce our commissions as a result of the medical loss ratio requirements or other aspects of health care reform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if health insurance companies fail to meet medical loss ratio requirements, we may be required to pay back commissions that are related to any premium amounts the carriers are required to rebate policy holders as a result, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The medical loss ratio requirements also may cause certain health insurance carriers to limit the geographies in which they sell health insurance or exit certain markets altogether, place less reliance on agents to distribute their plans, apply stricter underwriting standards (until provisions in health care reform registration limiting underwriting go 10 Table of Contents into effect in 2014) or limit their health insurance offerings in any number of other ways, each of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The implementation of medical loss ratio requirements has caused and could further cause health insurance carriers to reduce the amount they are willing to spend in connection with our sponsorship and technology licensing businesses, which also could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers or our relationship with health insurance carriers is modified. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, health insurance carriers also may amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally on short notice. Carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their existing or new health insurance plans, or desire to amend our agreements with them, for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, as a result of health care reform, as a result of a reluctance to distribute their plans over the Internet or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. In the future, and as a result of health care reform or for other reasons, an increasing number of health insurance carriers may decide to rely on their own internal distribution channels, including traditional in-house agents and carrier websites, to sell their own plans and, in turn, could limit or prohibit us from selling their plans on our ecommerce platform. For instance, carriers may choose to exclude us from their most profitable or popular plans or may determine not to distribute insurance plans in the individual, family and small business markets in certain geographies or altogether. The termination or amendment of our relationship with a carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance plans we offer, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also could lose a source of or be paid reduced commissions for future sales and for past sales, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new carrier relationships and are unable to offer consumers a wide variety of health insurance plans. The health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation over the past several years, resulting in a decrease in the number of health insurance carriers. In the future, we may be forced to offer insurance policies from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. We derived 14% and 13% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively, from carriers owned by UnitedHealthcare. We derived 12% and 11% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively, from carriers owned by WellPoint. We derived 17% and 8% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively, from Aetna. We have several agreements that govern our sale of individual health insurance plans with these health insurance carriers. Many of them may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact or cause the termination of the commission payments that we receive from these health insurance carriers, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Notwithstanding our separate agreements with various carriers directly or indirectly owned by the same entity, certain carriers have attempted and may continue to attempt to consolidate our relationship with them, which could increase the impact of carrier concentration on us, decrease the commission rates we receive and adversely affect our financial results, particularly in states where we offer health insurance from a relatively smaller number of carriers or where a small number of carriers dominates the market. The termination, amendment or consolidation of our relationship with these and other health insurance carriers could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues and earnings may continue to decline. We have recently experienced a significant reduction in the commission rates that health insurance carriers pay us on the individual and family health insurance plans that we sell. We also have in the past and may in the future continue to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures relating to marketing, website technology development, the development of our business selling 11 Table of Contents Medicare-related health insurance plans and the expansion of our technology licensing business to governmental entities. Our ability to resume revenue and earnings per share growth will be dependent upon a number of factors, including the success of our Medicare plan marketing and sales business, our ability to attract individuals, families and small businesses to purchase health insurance through our ecommerce platform, our maintaining our relationships with health insurance carriers and the commission rates we receive for our sale of health insurance plans, our ability to maintain our relationship with existing members within historical levels and our success in entering into relationships with government entities to perform services and license our technology for use in the implementation of health insurance exchanges and other health care reform-related endeavors. If we are not successful in these areas, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Our revenue will be adversely impacted if our membership does not grow or if the growth rate in our membership continues to decline. Although the number of total members increased in 2011 compared to 2010, and in 2010 compared to 2009, the rate of growth declined in 2011 compared to 2010, and declined in 2010 compared to 2009. The commission rates that we receive are typically higher in the first twelve months of a policy. After the first twelve months, they generally decline significantly. Accordingly, to the extent that our net addition of new members slows or we experience a reduction in the number of our members, our revenue would be adversely impacted due to a decline in commissions we receive for members whose policies have been active for more than twelve months in addition to the reduction in revenue growth that would occur solely as a result of a decline in our membership growth rate. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of other factors, including the particular health insurance policies chosen by our members, the carriers offering those policies, our members’ states of residence, the laws and regulations in those jurisdictions and health care reform. Our commission rate per member has, and could in the future, decrease as a result of either reductions in contractual commission rates or unfavorable changes in health insurance carrier override commission programs, each of which may be beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these and other factors cause our commission rate per member to decline, our rate of revenue growth may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We may not be successful in our efforts to market and sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent. We recently determined to market the availability of Medicare-related health insurance plans using our ecommerce platforms, including Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. We refer to these plans as Medicare plans. We market Medicare plans to Medicare-eligible individuals, who are predominately senior citizens over the age of 65. The sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are subject to an annual enrollment period during the fourth quarter of each year, when a substantial percentage of the annual sales of these plans occur. We do not have significant experience in marketing Medicare plans. The Medicare-related revenue we have generated is primarily referral fees paid to us based on Medicare leads generated by our online platforms that are delivered and sold to third parties. However, our strategy is to sell a greater percentage of these products directly as a health insurance agent using our websites and customer care centers. We have a limited number of relationships with health insurance carriers to sell Medicare plans, and our Medicare plan related revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers. The success of our entry into the market for Medicare plans as a health insurance agent will depend upon our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with health insurance carriers on favorable economic terms. We may temporarily or permanently lose the ability to market and sell Medicare plans for our Medicare plan carrier partners. For instance, a carrier may terminate our relationship. In addition, CMS has and will continue to penalize health insurance carriers for certain regulatory violations by not allowing them to market and sell Medicare plans for significant periods of time. Given the small number of our Medicare carrier relationships, if we lose a relationship with a health insurance carrier to market their Medicare plans temporarily or permanently for this or any other reason, our sales as a health insurance agent and Medicare plan related revenue could suffer significantly, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, the 12 Table of Contents agreements that we have with health insurance carriers to sell Medicare plans may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact, or cause the termination of, the commission payments that we receive for selling their Medicare plans, which would harm our business operating results and financial condition. CMS must annually approve our websites and call center scripts for us to be able to generate Medicare plan leads and sell Medicare plans to those leads as a health insurance agent. Moreover, our PlanPrescriber website and PlanPrescriber’s pharmacy chain referral partner relationships are a significant source of our Medicare plan leads. Each of these Medicare plan lead sources uses Medicare plan cost and benefit data collected and made publicly available by CMS. In the event that CMS disapproves, or delays approval, of our websites or call center scripts, or does not timely release Medicare plan cost and benefit data for the following year’s Medicare plans prior to the annual enrollment period, we could lose a significant source of Medicare plan leads and our ability to sell Medicare plans would be adversely impacted, each of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success in expanding into the Medicare plan market as a health insurance agent will also depend upon a number of additional factors, including: • our ability to continue to adapt our ecommerce platform to market Medicare plans, including our development or acquisition of marketing tools and features important in the sale of Medicare plans online and the modification of our existing user experience for new plans targeted at a different demographic; • our success in marketing our ecommerce platform to Medicare-eligible individuals and in entering into business development relationships to drive Medicare-eligible individuals to our ecommerce platform; • our effectiveness in entering into and maintaining relationships with marketing partners, including existing pharmacy chain partners that refer Medicare-eligible individuals to us; • our ability to hire and retain additional employees with experience in Medicare, including our ability to timely implement Medicare sales expertise into our customer care centers; • our ability to comply with the numerous, complex and changing laws and regulations and CMS guidelines relating to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, including continuing to conform our online and offline sales processes to those laws and regulations; and • the effectiveness with which our competitors market the availability of Medicare plans from sources other than our ecommerce platform. As a result of these factors, we may prove unsuccessful in marketing Medicare plans and acting as a health insurance agent in connection with their sale, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if our efforts to market Medicare plans during any annual enrollment period were impeded due to lack of health insurance carrier or CMS approval, or for other reasons, the impact on our business, operating results and financial condition would be significantly greater given the seasonality of Medicare-related revenues and expenses and the fact that much of the sales of Medicare plans occur during this period. Our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent is dependent upon our ability to timely hire, train and retain licensed health insurance agents. In addition to our websites, we rely upon our customer care centers to sell Medicare plans. The success of our customer care center operations is largely dependent on licensed health insurance agents. In order to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans, our health insurance agent employees must first be licensed by the state in which they are selling the plan and certified and appointed with the health insurance carrier that offers the plan in each state that the Medicare-related health insurance product is being sold. Because the vast majority of 13 Table of Contents Medicare plans are sold in the fourth quarter each year during the Medicare annual enrollment period, we are required to hire and train a significant number of additional employees on a temporary or seasonal basis in a limited period of time. We must also ensure that these employees are timely licensed in a significant number of states and certified and appointed with the health insurance carriers whose products we sell. We may not be successful in timely hiring a sufficient number of additional licensed agents for the Medicare annual enrollment period, and even if we are successful, these employees may experience delays in obtaining health insurance licenses and certifications and health insurance carrier appointments with our health insurance carrier partners. If we and our health insurance agent employees are not successful in these regards, our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans will be impaired during the annual enrollment period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Factors beyond our control may negatively impact our ability to market and sell Medicare plans. We determined to enter into the Medicare plan market because we believe the number of individuals becoming eligible for Medicare is increasing and these individuals are increasingly using the Internet to shop for health insurance plans. We also believe that, on average, member retention rates and the commissions that health insurance carriers pay in connection with the sale of Medicare plans compare favorably to the member retention rates and commissions we receive in connection with our sale of individual and family health insurance. Should we prove to be wrong, or should these circumstances reverse, our success in marketing Medicare plans would be materially and adversely impacted, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, portions of health care reform impose significant changes to original Medicare and the Medicare Advantage program by, among other things, increasing the benefits original Medicare provides, reducing payments to Medicare Advantage plans and imposing medical loss ratio requirements for Medicare Advantage plans. In the event health care reform or other circumstances decrease the demand for Medicare Advantage plans or other alternatives to original Medicare, or cause a reduction in the amount paid to agents in connection with the sale of these plans, our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous, complex and frequently changing laws and regulations, and any noncompliance with them could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level. The marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are principally regulated by CMS. The marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans are principally regulated on a state-by-state basis by state departments of insurance. The laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans are numerous, ambiguous and complex, and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. As a result of these laws, regulations and guidelines, we have altered, and likely will have to continue to alter, our websites and sales process to comply with several requirements that are not applicable to our sale of non-Medicare-related health insurance plans. For instance, many aspects of our online platforms and our marketing material and processes, as well as changes to these platforms, materials and processes, including call center scripts, must be approved on a regular basis by CMS and by health insurance carriers in light of CMS requirements. In addition, certain aspects of our Medicare plan marketing partner relationships with pharmacy chains have been in the past, and will be in the future, subjected to CMS and health insurance carrier review. Changes to the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to Medicare plans, their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could be incompatible with these relationships, our platforms or our sale of Medicare plans. Due to changes in CMS guidance or enforcement or interpretation of existing guidance, or as a result of new regulations and guidelines, CMS, state departments of insurance or health insurance carriers may determine to object to or not to approve aspects of our online platforms or marketing material and processes and may determine that certain existing aspects of our Medicare-related business are not in compliance. As a result, the progress of our Medicare opportunity could be slowed or we could be prevented from operating aspects of our 14 Table of Contents Medicare revenue generating activities altogether, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if it occurred during the Medicare annual enrollment period. It could also result in the write-down of the value of assets acquired in our PlanPrescriber acquisition. The impact that health care reform legislation will have on the market for Medicare plans is unclear, but it could change demand for Medicare plans, the way these plans are delivered, the commissions that carriers pay to health insurance agents in connection with their sale or could adversely impact us in other ways. In the event that laws and regulations adversely impact our ability to market the availability of any type of Medicare plan on our ecommerce platform, or the amounts that health insurance agents are paid for selling these plans, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our Medicare-related health insurance plan lead referral revenue may decline. One of our strategies is to service a greater number of Medicare plan leads ourselves as a health insurance agent rather than refer them to third parties and generate referral revenue. As a result, we may experience a reduction in Medicare referral revenue in future periods, and we could experience a reduction in Medicare plan related revenue in the short term, as we recognize lead referral revenue at the time of delivery and sale of the leads to third parties, but we recognize commission revenue from the sale of Medicare plans for which we serve as an agent over the term of the sold policies. Our generation of Medicare plan lead referral revenue also is dependent upon many of the factors that could impact our ability to generate Medicare plan commission revenue, including our ability to generate Medicare plan leads, and is subject to other risks and uncertainties. For instance, we depend upon CMS to permit us to use Medicare plan data collected by CMS for significant aspects of our PlanPrescriber platform, which has generated the majority of our Medicare plan related leads, and we rely upon a single purchaser of Medicare plan related leads. We also generate a significant number of Medicare plan leads through a limited number of marketing partner relationships with pharmacy chains. A delay in our ability to use CMS plan data, the termination our relationship with our lead purchasing partner, the inability of our lead purchasing partner to pay for the leads we generate or the termination of our relationship with our marketing partners could harm our ability to generate Medicare plan lead referral revenue and our business, operating results and financial condition. We have reduced our cost of acquisition and other expenses in connection with the sale of our individual and family health insurance plans, which may harm our operating results. As a result of the reduction in the commission rates we receive for selling individual and family health insurance plans, we have reduced our marketing and advertising and other expenses in this area of our business, which has adversely impacted the number of individual and family health insurance plan approved members for which we will receive commission revenue. The maintenance of a lower cost of acquisition depends significantly on the rate at which visitors to our website submit health insurance applications, particularly with respect to paid search advertising, as our paid search costs are incurred on the referral of a potential member rather than on the submission of a health insurance application. As a result, we may not be successful in maintaining an acceptable individual and family health insurance cost of acquisition in the event we experience a decline in the rate at which visitors to our platform submit individual and family health insurance applications, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance, particularly as a result of the commission rate reductions that we have experienced in our individual and family health insurance business, which impacted our financial results for 2011. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. 15 Table of Contents Our business model is characterized primarily by revenue based on commissions we receive from insurance carriers whose policies are purchased by our members. We receive commissions and record related revenue for an individual, family, small business or Medicare Supplement health insurance policy, typically on a monthly basis, until the health insurance policy is cancelled or we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy. For both Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, we record commission revenue on an annual basis but may receive commission payments from insurance carriers on either a monthly or annual basis typically for a period of up to six years, or longer depending on the carrier arrangement, provided that the policy remains active with us. A significant component of our marketing and advertising expenses consists of expenses incurred in search engine advertising at the time a consumer clicks on an advertisement and payments owed to our marketing partners in connection with applications submitted on our ecommerce platform by potential members referred to us by our marketing partners. As a result of this timing difference between expense and associated revenue recognition, our operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected in periods where we experience a significant increase in new applicants. In addition, if we incur other unanticipated or one-time expenses in a particular quarter or if we lose a significant amount of our member base for any reason, we would likely be unable to offset these expenses by increasing sales within that quarter or to replace lost revenue in the quarter with revenue from new members. As a result, our quarterly results may suffer due to unanticipated expenses, one-time charges or significant member turnover. Current economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue depends upon demand for health insurance in the individual, family and small business markets, which can be influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. For instance, an increased number of individuals have become self-employed or unemployed. In addition, as a result of substantial health insurance premium inflation in recent years, we believe that many employers have sought to reduce the costs associated with providing health insurance to their employees, including offering fewer benefits to employees, reducing or eliminating dependent coverage, increasing employee health insurance premium contributions and eliminating health insurance benefits altogether. We have no control over the economic and other factors that influence these trends, and they may reverse, including as a result of health care reform legislation. If economic or other factors beyond our control negatively impact our business, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that demand for the health insurance and services we offer have been adversely impacted by recent economic conditions. We cannot be certain of the future impact that the recent recession and other economic conditions will have on our business. A further softening of demand for health insurance and services offered by us, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weak U.S. economy, including as a result of disruptions in the global financial markets or a decrease in general consumer confidence, will result in decreased revenue and growth. Consumers may attempt to reduce expenses by cancelling existing health insurance purchased through us, determine not to purchase new health insurance through us, or purchase health insurance plans with lower premiums for which we receive lower commissions. To the extent the economy or other factors adversely impact our membership retention or the number or type of health insurance applications submitted through us and that are approved by health insurance carriers, our rate of growth will decline and our business and operating results will be harmed. A continuing negative economic environment could also adversely impact the health insurance carriers whose plans are offered on our ecommerce platform, and they may determine to reduce their commission rates, change their underwriting practices so that fewer health insurance applications are approved or take other actions that would negatively impact our sale of health insurance as well as our sponsorship and technology licensing businesses. Economic conditions have caused interest rates to decline. We have experienced a significant reduction in the rate of return on our investments both as a result of the decline in interest rates and as a result of our 16 Table of Contents implementation of more conservative investment policies. Economic conditions could materially and adversely impact our investments in the future, including loss of our principal investment, despite our implementation of more conservative investment policies. Our business may not grow if consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance. Numerous health insurance plans are available to consumers in any given market. Most of these plans vary by price, benefits and other policy features. Health insurance terminology and provisions are often confusing and difficult to understand. As a result, researching, selecting and purchasing health insurance can be a complex process. We believe that this complexity has contributed to a perception held by many consumers that individual health insurance is prohibitively expensive and difficult to obtain. We attempt to make the health insurance research and application process on our website understandable and user-friendly. We also attempt to use our website and other means to educate consumers about the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. If consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance or our ecommerce platform is difficult to navigate, our business may not grow and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are not successful in cost-effectively converting visitors to our website into members, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our growth depends in large part upon growth in our membership. The rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into members is a significant factor in the growth of our membership. A number of factors have influenced, and could in the future influence, the conversion rate for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions, consumers’ ability or willingness to pay for health insurance, extension of unemployment benefits or proposed or enacted legislative or regulatory changes impacting our business; • the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platform or with our customer care center; • regulatory requirements, including those that make the experience on our online platforms cumbersome or difficult to navigate; • the variety and affordability of the health insurance plans that we offer; • system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or call center operations; • changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels; • the health insurance carriers offering the health insurance plans for which consumers have expressed interest, and the degree to which our technology is integrated with those carriers; • health insurance carrier underwriting practices and guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers and the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application; and • competitive offerings. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channels. For example, our conversion rates have historically been lower with respect to consumers referred to us by Internet lead aggregators and relatively higher with respect to consumers coming to us through our direct member acquisition channel. In addition, we may make changes to our ecommerce platform or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience or for other reasons. These changes 17 Table of Contents in the past, and may in the future, have the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platform and are converted into members could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members on a per member basis. To the extent the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platform into members suffers, our membership growth rate may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our members, our business and operating results would be harmed. We receive revenue from commissions health insurance carriers pay to us for health insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform. When one of these policies is cancelled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission revenue. Individuals, families and small businesses may choose to discontinue their health insurance policies for a variety of reasons. For example, individuals and families may replace a health insurance policy purchased through us with a health insurance policy provided by a new or existing employer or may determine that they cannot afford health insurance. In addition, our members may choose to purchase new policies using a different agent if, for example, they are not satisfied with our customer service or the health insurance plans that we offer. Health insurance carriers may also terminate health insurance plans purchased and held by our members. If we are not successful in transferring members covered under a terminated plan to another policy that we offer, we will lose these members and associated commission revenue. Our cost in acquiring a new member is substantially greater than the cost involved in maintaining our relationship with an existing member. If we are not able to successfully retain existing members and limit member turnover, our revenue and operating margins could be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Changes in the quality and affordability of the health insurance plans that carriers offer on our ecommerce platform could harm our business and operating results. The demand for health insurance marketed through our ecommerce platform is impacted by, among other things, the variety, quality and price of the health insurance plans we offer. If health insurance carriers do not continue to allow us to sell a variety of high-quality, affordable health insurance plans in the individual, family and small business markets, or if their offerings are limited or terminated as a result of consolidation in the health insurance industry, health care reform legislation or otherwise, our sales may decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Health insurance carriers could determine to reduce the commissions paid to us or change their underwriting practices in ways that reduce the number of insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform, which could harm our business and operating results. Our commission rates, and the commission override payments we receive from health insurance carriers for achieving sales volume thresholds or other objectives, are either set by each carrier or negotiated between us and each carrier. Carriers have altered, and may in the future alter, the contractual relationships we have with them on short notice, either by renegotiation or unilateral action. If these contractual changes result in reduced commissions, our business may suffer and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, carriers periodically change the criteria they use for determining whether they are willing to insure individuals as well as other underwriting practices. At various times, carriers have applied more stringent underwriting criteria and practices to applications for health insurance. These practices result in a decrease in the rate at which insurance applications submitted through our ecommerce platform are approved. Changes in carrier underwriting criteria or practices could negatively impact sales of insurance policies on our ecommerce platform and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. The promotion of our brand in these and other ways may require us to 18 Table of Contents make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our operating results could be harmed. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, marketing partners and/or members, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have historically received media attention in connection with our public relations efforts. While we cannot be certain of the impact of media coverage on our business, if it were to be reduced, the number of consumers visiting our platform could decrease, and our cost of acquiring members could increase as a result of a reduction in the number of members coming from our direct member acquisition channel, both of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and operating results. The performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platforms and underlying network infrastructures are critical to our financial results, our brand and our relationship with members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance our ecommerce platform and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our website traffic or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Although we have experienced only minor system failures and interruptions to date, we could experience significant failures and interruptions in the future, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate our ecommerce platforms. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers’ networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our website traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in or decreases the responsiveness of our services would impair our revenue-generating capabilities and harm our business and operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, any loss of data could result in loss of customers and subject us to potential liability. Our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. In addition, our operations are vulnerable to earthquakes in the San Francisco Bay Area and elsewhere in Northern California. Consumers may access our customer care centers for assistance in connection with submitting health insurance applications after using our ecommerce platform. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers and third party software providers, to operate our customer care centers. Any failure of the systems that we rely upon in the operation of our customer care center could negatively impact sales as well as our relationship with consumers and members, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If consumers or carriers opt for more traditional or alternative channels for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon widespread consumer and health insurance carrier acceptance of the Internet as a marketplace for the purchase and sale of health insurance. Consumers and health insurance carriers may choose to depend more on traditional sources, such as individual agents, or alternative sources may develop, including as a result of health care reform legislation. Our future growth, if any, will depend in part upon: • the growth of the Internet as a commerce medium generally, and as a market for consumer financial plans and services specifically; • consumers’ willingness to conduct their own health insurance research; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to make the process of purchasing health insurance online an attractive alternative to traditional and new means of purchasing health insurance; • our ability to successfully and cost-effectively market our services as superior to traditional or alternative sources for health insurance to a sufficiently large number of consumers; and • health insurance carriers’ willingness to use us and the Internet as a distribution channel for health insurance plans. If consumers and health insurance carriers determine that other sources for health insurance and health insurance applications are superior, our business will not grow and our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both algorithmic listings and paid advertisements to attract consumers to our websites. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumer’s Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. We may also be listed less prominently as a result of new websites or changes to existing websites that result in these websites receiving higher algorithmic rankings with the search engine. Our website may become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which in turn would harm our operating results. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of member acquisition and harm our operating results. We purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract consumers to our website. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our name and website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. In some circumstances, the prominence of the placement of our advertisement is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements and websites other than our ecommerce platform may become more optimized for the algorithms. These changes may result in our having to pay increased amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors and others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many health insurance carriers, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. We have experienced increased competition from health 20 Table of Contents insurance carriers and some of our marketing partners for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid advertisements, which has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. If this competition increases further, or if the fees associated with paid search advertisements increase as a result of algorithm changes or other factors, our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on marketing partners and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners. In addition to marketing through Internet search engines, we frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with other online and offline businesses that promote us to their customers. These marketing partners include financial and online service companies, affiliate programs and online advertisers and content providers. We also have relationships with marketing partners, including pharmacy chains, that promote our Medicare platforms to their customers. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. Many factors influence the success of our relationship with our marketing partners, including: • the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner; • the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, including whether the marketing partner is successful in maintaining the prominence of its website in algorithmic search result listings and paid Internet advertisements; • the compliance of our marketing partners, and of the manner marketing partners refer consumers to our platforms, with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines; • the interest of the marketing partner’s customers in the health insurance plans that we offer on our ecommerce platform; • the contractual terms we negotiate with the marketing partner, including the marketing fees we agree to pay a marketing partner; • the percentage of the marketing partner’s customers that submit applications or purchase health insurance policies through our ecommerce platform; • the ability of a marketing partner to maintain efficient and uninterrupted operation of its website; and • our ability to work with the marketing partner to implement website changes, launch marketing campaigns and pursue other initiatives necessary to maintain positive consumer experiences and acceptable traffic volumes. For instance, we partner with Internet lead aggregators who refer a significant number of consumers to our online platforms. Major search engines have in the past and may in the future determine not to list lead aggregator websites prominently in search result listings for various reasons, which would cause a significant reduction in the number of consumers referred to us through our marketing partner channel. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners or fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. The impact that health care reform will have on our relationships with marketing partners is unclear. To the extent that health care reform makes it less profitable or desirable for marketing partners to promote us to their customers, we may lose relationships with existing marketing partners and may have difficulty entering into relationships with new marketing partners. We may also need to reduce the compensation that we pay to 21 Table of Contents marketing partners to the extent that health care reform has the effect of reducing commissions for individual and family health insurance. There is no guarantee that we will be able to amend our agreements to reduce the compensation that we pay to acceptable levels in light of the commission rates that we receive. If we are not able to do so, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, the promulgation of laws, regulations or guidelines, or the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and guidelines, by state departments of insurance or by CMS, could cause our relationships with our marketing partners to be in noncompliance with those laws, regulations and guidelines. For instance, as a result of our acquisition of PlanPrescriber, we have marketing partner relationships with pharmacy chains that utilize aspects of our platform and tools. Our relationships with these pharmacy chains result in the referral of a significant number of individuals to us who are interested in purchasing Medicare plans. If CMS or state departments of insurance were to change existing laws, regulations or guidelines, or interpret existing laws, regulations or guidelines, to prohibit these arrangements, we would experience a significant decline in the number of Medicare-eligible individuals who are referred to our platforms and call center, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition and could result in a write-down of the value of assets acquired in our PlanPrescriber acquisition. We rely on health insurance carriers to accurately and regularly prepare commission reports, and if these reports are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. We also may not recognize trends in our membership as a result of a lack of information from health insurance carriers. For individual, family and small business health insurance plans, health insurance carriers typically pay us a specified percentage of the premium amount on a health insurance policy that we have sold during the period that a member maintains coverage under the policy. For both Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug policies, health insurance carriers typically pay us a fixed commission amount during the period the policy remains active, typically for up to six years, or longer depending on carrier the arrangement, provided that the policy remains active with us. We rely on health insurance carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. It is often difficult for us to independently determine whether or not carriers are accurately reporting commissions due to us. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, we will not recognize revenue to which we are entitled, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also are dependent on health insurance carriers and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance plans other than small business group health insurance, health insurance carriers do not directly report member cancellations to us, resulting in the need for us to determine cancellations using payment data that carriers provide. We infer cancellations from this payment data by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months, given that some of our members pay on a schedule less frequently than monthly (e.g., quarterly). With respect to our small business group membership, many groups notify the carrier directly with respect to increases or decreases in group size and policy cancellations. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the group’s annual renewal. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. We also reconcile information health insurance carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. Additionally, health insurance carriers may require us to 22 Table of Contents return commission payments paid in a prior period due to policy cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. Total revenue per estimated member for the period would also change if our estimated membership changed. Our estimate regarding the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance plans also could be inaccurate as it is dependent upon the accuracy of our membership estimates. Our operating results fluctuate depending upon health insurance carrier payment practices and the timing of our receipt of commission reports from health insurance carriers. The timing of our revenue depends upon the timing of our receipt of commission reports and associated payments from health insurance carriers. There have been instances where their report of commissions and payment have been delayed, such as during holiday periods. Any delay could materially impact our financial results for a given quarter as we would not be able to recognize the related commission revenue in that quarter. In addition, much of our commission override revenue is not reported and paid to us in accordance with a scheduled pattern, and some is only reported and paid to us once per year. This could result in a large amount of commission revenue from a carrier being recorded in a given quarter that is not indicative of the amount of revenue we may receive from that carrier in subsequent quarters, causing fluctuations in our operating results. We could report revenue below the expectations of our investors or securities analysts in any particular period if a material report or payment from a health insurance carrier were delayed or not received within the time frame required for revenue recognition. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors. The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. We compete with entities and individuals that offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our competitors include the tens of thousands of local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. There are a number of agents that operate websites and provide an online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. Some local agents use “lead aggregator” services that use the Internet to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to the traditional agent. In addition to health insurance brokers and agents, many health insurance carriers directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers. We will also compete with state health insurance exchanges implemented as a result of healthcare reform. Healthcare reform also will result in health insurance plan cost and benefit data being more readily accessible, which could facilitate additional competition. In connection with our marketing of Medicare plans, we also compete with the original Medicare program. In addition, CMS offers plan information, comparison tools, call centers and online enrollment for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. In licensing our health insurance purchasing platform, we compete with companies providing technology that automates premium quoting, research and analysis of health insurance plans, member enrollment and other tools that support online sales efforts by health insurance carriers and their agents and brokers. We anticipate that in licensing our technology to government entities for health insurance exchange and other purposes, we will compete with these entities as well as system integrators, software companies, employee benefit service providers, technology consulting companies and others that have experience providing technology and services to the federal or state governments. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and 23 Table of Contents significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to: • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; • devote more resources to website and systems development; • negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments; and • make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. In addition, CMS has the ability to regulate our marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. Competitive pressures may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website and loss of market share, or may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with our operations in China. A portion of our operations is conducted in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update our ecommerce platform. This and other information is delivered to us through secured communications over the Internet. Our business would be harmed if this connection temporarily failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States, and different labor and tax laws. United States and Chinese trade laws may impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. Additionally, we have recently experienced greater competition for qualified personnel in China, which has raised market salaries and increased our compensation costs related to employees in that location. If competition for personnel increases further, our compensation expenses could rise considerably or, if we determine to not increase compensation levels, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in China may be impaired, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China, which in turn could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Our subsidiary in China has a subsidiary business insurance agency license in the Fujian province in China pursuant to which we are selling health, accident and life insurance in the Fujian province. Our license is up for renewal at the end of 2014. We have relationships with insurance companies to offer certain of those companies’ products throughout China. Additionally, we have entered, and may in the future continue to enter, into relationships with marketing partners to refer additional consumers to our website. We have no prior experience marketing or selling insurance in China or in adapting our business and ecommerce platform to Chinese markets and cultures, legal and regulatory regimes or business customs. For instance, the laws and regulations applicable to our marketing and selling insurance online and assisting others in those efforts in China are unclear, and our operations may be in violation of them. In addition, insurance laws and regulations in China are in a state of development, and the laws and regulations may change to prohibit our marketing insurance online. The consequences of violating insurance and other applicable laws and regulations in China are unclear, but they could result in the termination of our license and our ability to host insurance products on our technology platform, payment of fines and damages and could harm our business as a whole. For various reasons, we may not expand in China, and even if we do, there can be no assurance that our ecommerce platform in China would ever generate a significant amount of revenue or otherwise be successful. Our success in establishing an insurance-related business in China is also dependent upon many of the factors that influence the success of our business in the United States, including, but not limited to, our receiving regulatory approvals (including the renewal of our license), acceptance of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a marketplace for the purchase 24 Table of Contents of insurance, our success in marketing our ecommerce platform and in retaining members who purchase insurance through that platform, our ability to enter into and maintain relationships with insurance carriers, commission rates, the affordability of the insurance products offered, insurance carrier business practices, the effectiveness with which we establish a brand identity, performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platform, competition, the regulatory environment and the manner in which health care delivery is financed and changes to such environment or manner, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and network security. Our participation and success in the insurance market in China may be impacted by additional factors given that outside of Xiamen city, the insurance products offered on our website are offered directly by insurance carriers or through another insurance agent. As a result, our success in selling insurance outside of China is dependent upon many factors, including our dependence on insurance carriers or the insurance agent for the products on our website, the agent’s relationship with insurance carriers and consumers, our relationship with the insurance carriers and agent, each of the agent’s and the insurance carriers’ ability to maintain licenses and regulatory approvals, and the number, quality and attractiveness of the insurance products offered by the agent and the insurance carrier through our platform. While there is no certainty that we would be able to expand our presence in the insurance industry in China, we may attempt to do so. If we decide to do so, we will need to receive additional government licenses and approvals or enter into additional relationships and we may face disadvantages in doing so as a result of our subsidiary in China being wholly foreign owned. Our sponsorship advertising business may not be successful. We sell advertising space to health insurance carriers on our website through our sponsorship advertising program. Our sponsorship advertising program allows carriers to purchase advertising space in specific markets in a sponsorship area on our website. Health insurance carriers have and may continue to determine to eliminate or reduce spending on our sponsorship advertising program as a result of various aspects of health care reform, including the medical loss ratio requirements that became effective in 2011. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. To the extent that economic conditions, health care reform or other factors impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising on our ecommerce platform, our sponsorship advertising program will be adversely impacted. The success of our sponsorship advertising program is dependent upon a number of other factors, including the effectiveness of the sponsorship advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to attract consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and convert those consumers into members, the existence of a relationship between us and a diverse group of carriers that offer a number of health insurance plans in the markets in which we attempt to sell sponsorship advertising, the cost, benefit and brand recognition of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the sponsorship advertising, the impact the sponsorship advertising has on the sale of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising and the effectiveness of the carrier’s other means of advertising. In addition, while our practice of selling sponsorship advertising is described on our ecommerce platform, it could cause consumers to perceive us as not objective, which could harm our brand and result in a decline in our health insurance sales. It also could adversely impact our relationship with health insurance carriers that do not purchase our sponsorship advertising. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We also develop, host and maintain carrier dedicated Medicare plan websites through our sponsorship program. Our success in this aspect of our sponsorship program is dependent upon the same factors that could impact the rest of our sponsorship program. In addition, since we maintain relationships with a limited number of health insurance carriers to sell their Medicare plans, our Medicare plan-related sponsorship revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers and our ability to generate Medicare plan-related sponsorship revenue would be harmed by the termination of any of these sponsorship relationships. Moreover, in light of the regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, and given that these regulations are often unclear, change frequently and are subject to changing interpretations, we may in the future not be 25 Table of Contents permitted to sell Medicare plan related sponsorship advertising. If we are not successful in generating Medicare plan related sponsorship revenue, our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be successful in licensing the use of our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and other third parties. We license the use of our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and agents. Carriers use our platform to offer their own health insurance policies on their websites, and agents use it to power their quoting and online content. If we do not grow our revenue from the license of our technology, or if the rate of growth declines, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. The impact that health care reform may have on our technology licensing business is unclear. Health care reform could reduce health insurance carrier and agent demand for our technology licensing platform as a result of the medical loss ratio requirements that became effective in 2011 or for other reasons, and health insurance carriers who currently use the platform could determine to cease using it, reduce the number and type of plans offered on the platform or renegotiate the fees that they pay, any of which would reduce the revenue we receive from our technology licensing business. The business of licensing the use of our technology to others could facilitate carrier, health insurance agent and other third party competition with us in the sale of health insurance over the Internet and is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to establish relationships with new health insurance carriers, the reliability and performance of our ecommerce platform and the relative cost of developing competing technology. If we are not able to offer health insurance carriers and other third parties a reliable platform to cost-efficiently offer their plans over the Internet, our technology licensing business will be unsuccessful. We may not be successful in licensing the use of our technology or performing services pursuant to federal or state government contracts. An element of our strategy is to license the use of our technology and provide services to government entities in connection with health care reform and its requirement that states establish health insurance exchanges. While we have been a party to a small number of government contracts as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor, we are new to government contracting. Generally, government contracts are offered through a competitive bidding process. A number of entities may compete for the award of any particular government contract or related subcontract, and we may not be able to outbid our competitors. Even if we are awarded a contract, unsuccessful bidders may protest or challenge the contract award, which could result in our losing the contract. Complicated rules apply to doing business with the federal and state governments, including without limitation procurement laws and regulations. In addition, socio-economic obligations, including various restrictions relating to those of our employees that may perform under the government contract, may accompany government contracts. These requirements may require us to restructure aspects of our operations to perform under a contract, which may be difficult or impossible. As a government contractor, we are subject to audits, cost reviews and investigations by oversight agencies. We may not be successful in our effort to enter into government contracts, and even if we are, we may face difficulty and unanticipated expense in adapting our platform and software, and complying with applicable laws, regulations and contractual requirements. If we are not successful in our government contracting efforts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, if we fail to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts or applicable laws and regulations, we could be suspended or barred from future government projects for a significant period of time, as well as face civil or criminal fines and penalties, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Government contracts that we have entered into for the use of our services or licensing the use of our technology have short terms. Our government contracts may not be renewed for any reason, including as a result 26 Table of Contents of performance of the contract, competing solutions or a change in the governmental entity’s preferences. Furthermore, the contracts may be terminated as a result of our performance or as a result of the performance or actions of third parties involved in the contracts, such as a subcontractor or the prime contractor where we are a subcontractor. The termination or nonrenewal of any of our government contracts could harm our business, operating results and financial condition and make it more difficult to successfully bid on future government contracting opportunities. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and operating results. We believe that our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business and that our technology infrastructure currently gives us a competitive advantage in the distribution of individual, family and small business health insurance. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. Although we have applied for patents in the United States, they may not result in issued patents. We have not filed for protection of our intellectual property in any foreign jurisdiction other than China. We have Chinese-registered computer software copyrights for an internally-developed software system and a project management tool and have certain trademarks in China. We have not filed any patent applications in China. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks, copyrights and patents if issued, may be held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, the law relating to intellectual property is not as developed in China, and our intellectual property rights may not be as respected in China as they are in the United States. Any United States or other patents issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, and given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain of our proprietary technologies. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, trade secrets and other confidential information, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our management’s attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property or other rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and confidential information, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet and technology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated, infringed or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or that cover third-party technology that we use as a part of our websites. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our services and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our website or that we otherwise distribute or provide will likely harm our business and operating results. We provide information on our website, through our customer care centers and in other ways regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our website. Separately, from time to time, we use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and facilitate reform at the state and federal level relating to the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. We also regularly provide health insurance plan information in our customer care centers. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care centers or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, our relationships with health insurance carriers could be terminated and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our management’s attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we have received and may continue to receive inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters. We have become, and may in the future become, involved in litigation in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations, we could lose our relationship with health insurance carriers and be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our licenses to sell insurance, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. We would also be harmed to the extent that related publicity damages our reputation as a trusted source of information relating to health insurance and its affordability. It could also be costly to defend ourselves regardless of the outcome. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is critical to our success. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. For example, we appoint a single writing agent with each insurance carrier. If we lose the service of our appointed writing agent, the duties of writing agent will need to be transitioned to other company personnel. Due to our national reach and the large number of carrier partners whose policies are purchased by our members, this transition may be difficult and requires a significant period of time to complete. If the transition is not successful or takes too long to complete, our agency relationship with particular insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed. Most of our senior management and key employees have sold shares of our common stock in the open market, and some have sold a significant portion of their vested holdings. These employees may be more likely to leave us given that they have liquidated some or a substantial percentage of their holdings. Our senior management and key employees work for us on an at-will basis and our business could be harmed if we lose their services. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to manage the expansion of our business, our business and operating results would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly and have recently entered into the business of selling Medicare plans and providing the use of our technology and services to governmental entities. Our entering into these new areas of business places increasing and significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems and infrastructure and our other resources. If we do not effectively manage this expansion, the quality of our services could suffer, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to successfully expand our business, we need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We also need to continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls. These improvements could require significant capital expenditures and place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls. If we do not successfully implement improvements in these areas, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. The number of individual and family health insurance applications submitted through our ecommerce platform has generally increased in our first quarter compared to our fourth quarter and in our third quarter compared to our second quarter. Conversely, we have generally experienced a decline or flattening of individual and family submitted applications in our second quarter compared to our first quarter and in our fourth quarter compared to our third quarter. Since a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses are driven by the number of health insurance applications submitted on our ecommerce platform, those expenses are influenced by these patterns. The reasons for these seasonal patterns are not entirely clear. The vast majority of Medicare plans are sold in the fourth quarter of each year during the Medicare annual enrollment period, when Medicare-eligible individuals are permitted to change their Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage for the following year. As a result, we have generated the majority of our Medicare plan-related revenue in the fourth quarter of the year. We significantly increased our temporary customer care center staff during the third quarter in preparation for the Medicare annual enrollment period. We employ our temporary customer care center staff until the end of the Medicare annual enrollment period in December. As a result, our customer care center staffing costs are significantly higher in the third and fourth quarters compared to the first and second quarters. We also incurred significantly greater Medicare plan-related online advertising expenses during the third and fourth quarters. Because the majority of our Medicare plan-related revenue is not generated until the fourth quarter, our temporary customer care center staffing costs and marketing expenses incurred in the third quarter have had a significant negative impact on our profitability during the third quarter. Based on these seasonal trends, we expect our revenue to be highest in the fourth quarter of the year and we expect our profitability to be relatively higher in the second and fourth quarters and lower in the first and third quarters of the year. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. We may decide to acquire businesses, products and technologies. Our ability as an organization to successfully make and integrate acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it will require us to incur transaction expenses, and after the transaction, may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may require the amortization, write down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • an acquisition undertaken for strategic business purposes may negatively impact our results of operations; 29 Table of Contents • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • we may be required to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs or to maintain our financial results; • we may have to issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and • acquisitions may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisition on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue an acquisition, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or that the financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisition. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization, and we are in the process of expanding our business operations into the areas of the sale of Medicare plans and government contracting. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently and is complicated by the expansion of our business operations. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price and potential lawsuits against us. 30 Table of Contents Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings differing materially from our projections, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws, tax effects of share-based compensation or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions, or interpretations thereof. For instance, in October 2010, the state of California approved budget legislation which substantially limited the utilization of net operating losses. The new law did not affect the amount of net operating losses and tax credits that we expect to ultimately use to offset future California taxes, but limited the amount we could utilize in 2010 and 2011, resulting in our paying higher cash taxes. To the extent that our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility or adverse outcomes as a result of tax examinations, our operating results could be harmed. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) relating to accounting for income taxes. In addition, U.S. GAAP applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There may be exposure that the outcomes from these examinations will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any expansion of our business into foreign countries involves significant risks. We currently do not sell health insurance or license our technology platform outside the United States other than in China. We may attempt to expand aspects of our business to additional geographic regions. We face significant challenges in connection with expanding our business into any foreign country, since we have no prior experience marketing or selling insurance in any foreign jurisdiction. Additionally, demand for private health insurance is not significant in many foreign countries as a result of government-sponsored health care systems. In addition to facing many of the same challenges we face domestically, we also would have to overcome other obstacles such as: • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of United States companies to market insurance or otherwise do business in foreign countries; • varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions; • less extensive adoption of the Internet as a commerce medium or information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; and • the adaptation of our website and distribution model to fit the particular foreign country. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand our services internationally or we may be unsuccessful should we attempt to do so, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Insurance Regulation Regulation of the sale of health insurance is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business and operating results. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, a long standing provision in each state’s law that we believe is advantageous to our business is that once health insurance premiums are set by the carrier and 31 Table of Contents approved by state regulators, they are fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance plans offered on our website. If these regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance plans sold through our ecommerce platform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. States have, and will continue, to adopt new laws and regulations in response to health care reform legislation. It is too early to predict how these new laws and regulations will impact our business, but in some cases such laws and regulations could amplify the adverse impacts of health care reform, or may adopt new requirements that adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We are also subject to additional insurance regulatory risks, because we use the Internet as our distribution platform. In many cases, it is not clear how existing insurance laws and regulations apply to Internet-related health insurance advertisements and transactions. To the extent that new laws or regulations are adopted that conflict with the way we conduct our business, or to the extent that existing laws and regulations are interpreted adversely to us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that are applicable to the sale of health insurance, our business and operating results would be harmed. The sale of health insurance is heavily regulated by each state in the United States. For instance, state regulators require us to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and further require that we adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdiction’s insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to: • grant and revoke licenses to transact insurance business; • conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies; • require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance; • authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold; • approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers and the circumstances under which they may be paid; • regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages, and other marketing practices; • approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates; • impose fines and other penalties; and • impose continuing education requirements. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. New insurance laws, regulations and guidelines also may not be compatible with the sale of health insurance over the Internet or with various aspects of our platform or manner of marketing or selling health insurance plans. Failure to comply with insurance laws, regulations and guidelines or other laws and regulations applicable to our business could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements, the revocation of licenses in a 32 Table of Contents particular jurisdiction and/or our inability to sell health insurance plans, which could significantly increase our operating expenses, result in the loss of our commission revenue and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. Because some consumers, marketing partners and health insurance carriers may not be comfortable with the concept of purchasing health insurance using the Internet, any negative publicity may affect us more than it would others in the health insurance industry and would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in insurance laws, regulations and guidelines may also be incompatible with various aspects of our business and require that we make significant modifications to our existing technology or practices, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement and could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from regulators regarding our marketing and business practices. We typically respond by explaining how we believe we are in compliance with relevant regulations or may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. Any modification of our marketing or business practices in response to future regulatory inquiries could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to the Internet and Electronic Commerce Our business is subject to security risks and, if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, including personal health information, our business will be harmed. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential information of consumers and the transmission of this information to their chosen health insurance carriers. For example, we collect names, addresses, Social Security and credit card numbers, and information regarding the medical history of consumers in connection with their applications for health insurance. As a result, we are subject to various federal, state and international laws and regulations regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information. We cannot guarantee that our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, will be free of security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Compliance with privacy and security laws, requirements and regulations may result in cost increases due to new constraints on our business, the development of new processes, the effects of potential non-compliance by third party service providers, and enforcement actions. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, although our third party service providers are required to implement appropriate security measures, we have limited control over their actions and practices. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security could damage our reputation and our relationship with our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, could reduce demand for our services and could subject us to significant liability as well as regulatory action or private privacy-related lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, in the event that data security laws are implemented, or our health insurance carrier or other partners determine to impose new requirements on us relating to data security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance 33 Table of Contents plans in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular health insurance carrier or subject us to liability for non-compliance, any of which would damage our business, operating results and financial condition. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. The laws governing general commerce on the Internet remain unsettled and it may take years to fully determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations relating to the Internet could harm our business and we could be forced to incur substantial costs in order to comply with them, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to correspond with our consumers or market the availability of our ecommerce platform by email. We use email to market our services to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of email for marketing purposes continue to evolve and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the Internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers, e-mail service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as “spam.” Many Internet and e-mail service providers have relationships with organizations whose purpose it is to detect and notify the Internet and e-mail service providers of entities that the organization believes is sending unsolicited e-mail. If an Internet or e-mail service provider identifies email from us as “spam” as a result of reports from these organizations or otherwise, we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members. If we are unable to communicate by email with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Consumers depend upon third-party service providers to access our website, and our business and operating results could be harmed as a result of technical difficulties experienced by these service providers. Consumers using our website depend upon Internet, online and other service providers for access to our website. Many of these service providers have experienced significant outages, delays and other difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. Any significant interruption in access to our website or increase in our website’s response time as a result of these difficulties could damage our relationship with insurance carriers, marketing partners and existing and potential members and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to 34 Table of Contents fluctuate or decline, particularly as a result of developments relating to health care reform legislation. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business and changes in perceptions relating to the economy; • speculation in the press or investment community; • technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • actual or anticipated regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries, including health care reform legislation in the United States; • major catastrophic events; • announcements or developments relating to the economy; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • the trading volume of our common stock, as well as sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our strategic partners, customers or our current competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. A small number of greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliated entities beneficially owned more than 75% percent of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders. 35 Table of Contents Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • cumulative voting in the election of directors is prohibited, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may, in general, not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 