Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. The following factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The market for LEDs has historically been, and we expect will continue to be, highly volatile, which could harm our business and result in significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations in supply and demand for LEDs pose serious risks to our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry, akin to the semiconductor industry, is highly cyclical and characterized by rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, declining average selling prices and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Our industry's cyclicality results from a complex set of factors, including, but not limited to: •fluctuations in demand for end-products that incorporate LED chips and LED components; •ongoing reductions in the number of LED chips and LED components required per application due to performance improvements; and •fluctuations in the unutilized manufacturing capacity available to produce LED chips and LED components. As market demand increases, if we are not able to increase our capacity or if we experience delays or unforeseen costs associated with increasing our capacity levels, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. Alternatively, as market demand decreases or as market supply surpasses demand, we may not be able to reduce manufacturing expenses or overhead costs proportionately. We believe that many of our competitors are, like us, adding MOCVD reactors and related equipment to increase manufacturing capacity, which would result in increased supply of LED chips and LED components. If the expected increase in supply outpaces any increases in future market demand, or if demand decreases, the resulting oversupply could adversely impact our sales and result in the underutilization of manufacturing capacity, high inventory levels, changes in revenue mix and rapid price erosion, which would lower our margins and adversely impact our financial results. For example, we recorded significant write-downs of inventories in fiscal 2011 as a result of a significant decline in their average selling prices, and excess capacity charges as we suffered from lower capacity utilization as a result of a decrease in customer demand. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or the severity of such difficulties and the impact on our margins and operating results. We operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes and declining average selling prices. Competitive pressures from existing and new companies, and/or damage to our brand, may harm our business and operating results. Competition in the markets for LED products is intense, and we expect that competition will continue to increase. Increased competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Competitors may reduce average selling prices faster than our ability to reduce costs, and competitive pricing pressures may accelerate the rate of decline of our average selling prices. For example, we 14 Table of Contents experienced intense competition in fiscal 2011, which created a highly aggressive pricing environment. As a result we had to lower the selling prices for our products. Such decline in average selling prices has accelerated the decline in the gross margin of our products and has adversely affected our operating results. To address increased pricing pressure, we have invested in the development of larger wafer sizes, in particular using 4" wafers, which we believe should lower our production costs. However, if we are unable to migrate to larger wafer sizes in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We compete with many LED chip manufacturers and, to a lesser extent, LED packaging manufacturers. With respect to our LED chips and LED components, we primarily compete with Citizen Electronics Co., Ltd., Cree, Inc., or Cree, Epistar Corporation, Genesis Photonics Inc., Nichia Corporation, Philips (Lumileds), Siemens (Osram) GmbH, or Siemens (Osram), Showa Denko K.K., or Showa Denko, and Toyoda Gosei Co., Ltd., or Toyoda Gosei. We have a number of competitors that compete directly with us and are much larger than us, including, among others, Cree, Epistar Corporation, Nichia Corporation, Philips (Lumileds), and Siemens (Osram). Several substantially larger companies, such as Philips (Lumileds), Siemens (Osram) and Toyoda Gosei, compete against us with a relatively small segment of their overall business. In addition, several large and well-capitalized semiconductor companies, such as Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Sharp Ltd. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., have recently entered into the LED chip and lighting market. These potential competitors have extensive experience in developing semiconductor chips, which is similar to the manufacturing process for LED chips. We are also aware of a number of well-funded private companies that are developing competing products. We will also compete with numerous smaller companies entering the market, some of whom may receive significant government incentives and subsidies pursuant to government programs designed to encourage the use of LED lighting and to establish LED-sector companies. For example, Korea has programs to encourage the use of LED lighting and to establish LED-sector companies, which could result in new competitors. Our existing and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing, distribution and other resources, more long-standing and established relationships with our existing and potential customers, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater government incentives and support. In addition, some of our competitors have been in operation much longer than we have and therefore may have more long-standing and established relationships with our current and potential customers. We compete primarily on the basis of our products' performance, price, quality, and reliability and on our ability to customize products to meet customer needs. However, our competitors may be able to develop more competitive products, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, offer comparable products at more competitive prices or bring new products to the market earlier. Any failure to respond to increased competition in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, intellectual property claims against us, including pending claims and litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be used by our competitors to damage our brand reputation and our relationships with existing and potential customers. We have incurred net losses in recent periods and may again incur net losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $3.7 million and $16.1 million for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2009 and August 31, 2011, respectively. We can give no assurance that we will not incur net losses in future periods. Our revenue and net income may continue to decline for a variety of reasons, some of which are described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section and are beyond our control. You should not rely on the revenue or net income growth of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. In the past, we have experienced revenue declines and incurred increased net losses. If our future growth fails to meet investor or analyst expectations, the trading price of our 15 Table of Contents common stock may decline significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could make our future performance difficult to predict and could cause our operating results for a particular period to fall below expectations, resulting in a severe decline in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We have experienced seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in the past. As such, our past quarterly operating results may not be good indicators of future performance. The following factors could cause our operating results to fluctuate: •our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and successfully enter new geographic markets; •changes in supply and demand and other competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors and our customers' competitors; •timing of orders from and shipments to major customers and end-customers, including as part of LED project-based orders, and our ability to forecast demand and manage lead times for the manufacturing of our products; and •seasonal fluctuations in our customers' purchasing patterns. For these or other reasons, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance, and our actual revenue and operating results in future quarters may fall short of the expectations of investors and financial analysts, which could have a severe adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We derive our revenues mainly from the sale of our LED chips and LED components. Our inability to grow or maintain our revenues generated from the sales of LED chips and LED components would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation. A majority of our revenues is derived from the sale of LED chips, our core product, and an increasing percentage of our revenues is generated from the sale of LED components. Revenues attributable to the sale of our LED chips represented 78%, 77% and 58% of our revenues for the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Revenues attributable to the sale of our LED components represented 20%, 21% and 32% of our revenues for the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We expect to continue to generate our revenues mainly from the sale of LED chips and LED components for the foreseeable future. As such, the continued market acceptance of our LED chips and LED components is critical to our continued success, and our inability to grow or maintain our revenues generated from the sales of LED chips and LED components would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Trademark, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights are critical to our business and the business of our competitors. Our industry is characterized by frequent intellectual property litigation involving patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and mask designs among others. Competitors of ours and other third parties have in the past and will likely from time to time in the future allege that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. On October 14, 2010, Cree, our competitor and a major manufacturer of LED products, filed a complaint against us and Helios Crew, our wholly owned subsidiary, with the United States District 16 Table of Contents Court of Delaware, alleging that we and Helios Crew have infringed certain of their patents and seeking injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages, pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys' fees. We and Helios Crew filed an answer to the complaint on November 3, 2010, denying all allegations of infringement. Cree filed a motion on December 10, 2010 to amend its initial complaint to add additional United States patents that it alleges we have infringed. On March 22, 2011, the Court granted Cree's motion to amend and the second amended complaint was placed on file. Cree then filed a third amended complaint, based on the same Cree patents and adding a subsidiary of our Company, Taiwan SemiLEDs, as a defendant. The third amended complaint similarly alleges that we have infringed certain of Cree's patents in the United States and seeks injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages, pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys' fees. We answered the third amended complaint on May 16, 2011, denying all allegations of infringement. We believe we have meritorious defenses and intend to contest this lawsuit vigorously. However, in the event that Cree is successful in obtaining some or all of the relief it seeks, we may be barred from importing or selling our products into the United States and may be subject to damages and penalties. Moreover, Cree has an extensive patent portfolio and we cannot assure you that Cree will not assert additional claims of infringement of its other patents. We believe that, as our visibility within the LED market increases as a result of our initial public offering, the risk that additional infringement claims, with or without merit, will be asserted against us will increase. On August 15, 2011, we and Taiwan SemiLEDs filed a complaint against Cree in the United States District Court of Delaware seeking injunctive relief, damages, pre- and post-judgment interest, costs, expenses and attorneys' fees for infringing a number of our patents. On October 11, 2011, Cree filed an answer and counterclaims to our complaint, denying all allegations of infringement, alleging that we and Taiwan SemiLEDs have infringed certain of its patents and seeking injunctive relief, unspecified monetary damages, pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys' fees. We and Taiwan SemiLEDs filed our answer to Cree's counterclaims on November 4, 2011. Litigation to determine the validity and scope of any claim against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights can be highly uncertain because of the complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses involved. Defending against any intellectual property infringement claims would likely result in costly litigation, diversion of the attention and efforts of our technical and management personnel and ultimately may lead to our not being able to manufacture, use or sell products found to be infringing. As a result of any such dispute, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, pay substantial damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements to use third-party technology, cease selling certain products, adjust our marketing and advertising activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. The intellectual property rights related to packaging LEDs with phosphors to make white light LED components are particularly complex and characterized by aggressive enforcement of those rights. Many of our competitors and other third parties hold patents or licenses or cross-licenses that relate to phosphors and the use of phosphors in LED packages to make white light LED components. We have sought to minimize the risk that one of our competitors or another third party will assert a claim related to our packaged LED components by marketing these products only in certain countries in which we believe enforcement of intellectual property rights has historically been more limited. We cannot assure you that our belief with respect to the enforcement of rights within those markets is accurate. In addition, if the products we sell in a particular country are subsequently shipped or resold to another country, the intellectual property laws of the country of final destination may also apply to our products. Further, we may be subject to claims if our packaging customers for our LED chips lack sufficient intellectual property rights with respect to their packaging process and related packaging materials. We cannot assure you that our competitors or others will not claim that our LED chips or 17 Table of Contents our LED components infringe their intellectual property rights or that, if such claims are made, we will be able to successfully dispute such claims. Intellectual property claims against us, or our customers, including our distributor customers, could subject us to significant costs and materially damage our business and reputation. From time to time, third parties may assert infringement claims against us, or our customers with respect to our products, or our customers' products that incorporate our technologies or products, and any such legal action or the threat of legal action against us, or our customers, could impair such customers' continued demand for our products. For example, Nichia Corporation, or Nichia, filed a lawsuit in Japan against a Japanese subsidiary of Seoul Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or Seoul Semiconductor, which is one of our customers, and another lawsuit in Korea against Seoul Semiconductor. In those two lawsuits, Nichia asserted that our LED chips infringed two patents in Japan and one in Korea. While we were not named as a defendant in either of those lawsuits, we intervened as independent or supplementary parties. Although the Japanese lawsuit was settled, it is still possible for Nichia to file a new lawsuit on the two patents originally at issue in the action in Japan. In addition, although the Korean district court found the patent at issue to be invalid, Nichia's subsequent appeal and Seoul Semiconductor's related invalidation action were both withdrawn after the parties entered into a cross-licensing agreement. As such, the invalidity finding by the district court was vacated. Furthermore, some of our distribution agreements require us to defend and indemnify our distributor customers in the event that they are sued by third parties for intellectual property infringement claims involving the sale or use of our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending these claims. Our indemnification obligations could increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in any such action. If LEDs fail to achieve widespread adoption in the general lighting market, or if alternative technologies gain market acceptance, our prospects will be materially adversely impacted and we may be unable to achieve and maintain our profitability. Our products are primarily sold for use in LED general lighting applications. Our financial condition, results of operations and prospects substantially depend on increased market acceptance of LEDs in general lighting globally, and in particular in Asia. Although LED lighting has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LEDs for general lighting has only recently begun, is still limited and faces significant challenges. If LED lighting does not achieve widespread acceptance and adoption, or if demand for LED products does not grow as we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our prospects for growth and profitability will be limited. Moreover, if existing sources of light other than LED devices, such as organic light emitting diodes (OLEDs), achieve adoption, or if new sources of light are developed, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. Potential customers for LED general lighting systems may not adopt LED lighting as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of LEDs' higher upfront cost. In addition, manufacturers of general lighting systems may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing lighting technologies, such as traditional incandescent, fluorescent, halogen and high intensity discharge, or HID, lighting devices, and may perceive risks relating to the complexity, reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of LED products. Even if LED lighting continues to achieve performance improvements and cost reductions, limited customer awareness of the benefits of LEDs, lack of widely accepted standards governing LED lighting and customer unwillingness to adopt LEDs in 18 Table of Contents favor of entrenched solutions could significantly limit the demand for LED products. Additional factors that may limit the adoption of LEDs for general lighting include, among others: •a significant reduction in or discontinuation of government regulations and economic incentives to promote the development of the LED industry or government regulations that discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies; •changes in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of some traditional lighting technologies, for example declining energy prices that favor existing lighting technologies; and •capital expenditures for new and replacement lighting systems by end-users of LED products, which may decline during economic downturns. Our gross margins could fluctuate as a result of changes in our product mix and other factors, which may adversely impact our operating results. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate from period to period as a result of the mix of products that we sell in any given period. If our sales mix shifts to a greater percentage of LED components, our average selling prices could be higher. However, LED components generally have lower margins than our LED chips, and therefore our overall gross margin levels would be adversely impacted. Increased competition and the adoption of alternatives to our products, more complex engineering requirements, lower demand, over-capacity in the market and other factors may also lead to price erosion and, as a result, lower product margins and lower revenues. For example, some of our competitors have in the past reduced their average selling prices, and the resulting competitive pricing pressures have caused us to similarly reduce our prices, accelerating the decline in the gross margin of our products. We anticipate our competitors will continue to implement such competitive strategies from time to time in the future. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers for certain key raw materials and equipment. The loss of key suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business. There are a limited number of companies which supply certain of the specialized raw materials that are important to the manufacture of our products as well as a very limited number of manufacturers of equipment that are critical to our operations. We generally enter into spot purchase orders with our suppliers and do not have long-term or guaranteed supply arrangements with any of them. We purchase sapphire products, the key wafer material used in the manufacture of our LEDs from a limited number of suppliers. A major shortage of sapphire wafers would impair our ability to meet our production needs resulting in increased costs. We also purchase gases, photo chemicals and other materials from various suppliers on the spot market. Although supply constraints do not currently have an impact on our ability to procure supply, supply constraints have occurred in the past and may occur again from time to time in the future. Additionally, we use metals such as copper alloy and other commodities in our manufacturing process. The price volatility of such materials may make our procurement planning challenging. If the prices of materials increase it may adversely affect our operating margins. Although these materials are generally available and are not considered to be specialty chemicals, our inability to procure such materials in volumes and at commercially reasonable prices could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, the global LED chip manufacturing industry currently relies on only a few manufacturers of MOCVD reactors. Because the MOCVD reactor is the key equipment used to produce LED chips, a significant increase in demand for production capacity could place significant pressure on these equipment manufacturers. These equipment manufacturers may not be able to timely meet such demand. In addition, there are varying lead times of up to six months or more for MOCVD reactors. In the event that we are unable to procure sufficient equipment for our planned capacity expansions, planned migration to larger wafer sizes and, in particular, for China SemiLEDs' new 4" manufacturing facility, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If any of our key raw material and equipment suppliers fails to meet our needs on time or at all, we may not be able to procure replacement supplies from other sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and our production may be delayed or interrupted, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and damage our customer relationships. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult for you to evaluate our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and which impairs our ability to accurately forecast our future performance. We were incorporated in January 2005 and our first sales of LED chips occurred in November 2005. In the past, we have experienced revenue declines and incurred net losses. For the years ended August 31, 2010 and 2011, we generated net income of $10.8 million and net loss of $16.1 million. Our limited operating history, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the LED industry in which we compete, may not provide an adequate basis for you to evaluate our operating and financial results and business prospects. In addition, we only have limited insight into emerging trends that may adversely affect our business, prospects and our operating results. As such, our limited operating history may impair our ability to accurately forecast our future performance. We may not be able to effectively expand production capacity or do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could prevent us from achieving increased sales, margins and market share. Our strategy to capitalize on the potential growth of the LED market in China includes China SemiLEDs, which recently commenced production at its Foshan manufacturing facilities. However, any further expansion of China SemiLEDs' current production capacity is dependent on, among other things, its success in the market and ability to obtain additional financing. There are many events that could delay, prevent or impact our ability to increase our capacity in accordance with our plans, or otherwise increase our costs, including shortages or late delivery of building materials and facility equipment, delays in governmental approval, consents, licenses, permits and certifications, labor disputes, availability of space for further build-out or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among others. Any unanticipated delays in completion of any expansion or upgrade of our facilities at Taiwan SemiLEDs or any further expansion or upgrade at China SemiLEDs or cost overruns may result in a loss of customers and will have a negative impact on our and China SemiLEDs' reputation. Upgrading or expanding existing facilities could also result in manufacturing problems that reduce our yields. For example, in the third fiscal quarter of 2009, we suffered a temporary decrease in our yields after we moved our manufacturing facilities in Taiwan to a new location to increase manufacturing capacity. Yields and utilization rates below our target levels could negatively impact our gross profit. Our plan to expand production capacity requires a significant amount of fixed cost as it will require us to add and purchase manufacturing lines, equipment and additional raw materials and other 20 Table of Contents supplies. If we are not able to recoup these costs through increased sales and profits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may have difficulty managing our future growth and the associated increased scale of our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We have experienced a period of significant growth until recent slowdowns. However, we intend to continue to upgrade our business and operations in Taiwan, including a focus on the introduction of new products, increasing the production of LED chips using 4" wafers, and improving our production yields, to be in position to capture future growth of the market and our business. In addition, China SemiLEDs recently commenced production at its Foshan manufacturing facilities. Our future expansion plans, in particular those in China, may place a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, technological and financial resources. In order to manage our growth, we must continue to hire, recruit and manage our workforce effectively as well as implement adequate controls and reporting systems and procedures in a timely manner. If we fail to manage our growth, we may encounter, among other things, delays in production and operational difficulties. Moreover, any additional capital investments would increase our overall costs. In order to effectively support our growth, we must also continue to: •maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment; •secure and maintain sufficient and stable supplies of raw material; •continue to expand our research and development, sales and marketing, technological and distribution capabilities; •enhance the skills and capabilities of our key personnel and hire additional experienced senior level managers and technical personnel; and •attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth and the associated increased scale of our operations, our financial results, financial condition, business or prospects could be harmed significantly. Sales of our products are concentrated in Asia, particularly in China and in Taiwan. Adverse developments in these markets could have a material and disproportionate impact on us. Our revenues are highly concentrated in markets in Asia, particularly in China and Taiwan. Revenues generated from sales of our LED chips and LED components to Taiwan and China (including Hong Kong) accounted for 79%, 76% and 68% of our revenues for the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As a result of our revenue concentration in these two markets, economic downturns, changes in governmental policies and increased competition in China or Taiwan could have a material and disproportionate impact on our revenues, operating results, business and prospects. We may not succeed in cost-effectively producing LED chips using larger wafer sizes. We expect to have to continually develop new technologies that allow us to produce LED chips using larger wafer sizes. We believe larger wafer sizes will enable us to reduce the per-unit costs of our products and allow us to compete more effectively against companies that already possess or are developing such technologies. We currently manufacture chips based on a mix of 2.5" and 4" wafer sizes at our manufacturing facilities in Taiwan, and plan to increase our 4" wafer output and reduce our 2.5" wafer output in the next few months. However, due to our limited experience in the commercial 21 Table of Contents production of LED chips using 4" wafers, our yields and performance during the early stages of production may be lower than anticipated. Larger wafers are significantly more expensive to manufacture than smaller wafers and generally have physical attributes and properties that make it materially more difficult to process efficiently for the manufacture of LED chips with yield and consistency that may not justify the high cost of the wafer. While we have invested and will continue to invest in process technologies and know-how to improve our LED chips using 4" wafers and to manufacture LED chips using greater wafer sizes, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in doing so. Even if we develop the technology and know-how necessary to successfully manufacture LED chips using larger wafer sizes, there could be shortages of MOCVD reactors that are capable of producing LED chips on these larger wafer sizes. For example, there are currently very few suppliers that manufacture MOCVD reactors capable of producing LED chips on 4" or greater size wafers. Several of our competitors, such as Cree, Philips (Lumileds) and Siemens (Osram), are manufacturing LED chips based on 4" wafers and 6" wafer technology. If we are unable to cost-effectively migrate to larger wafer sizes, or if these and other manufacturers succeed in developing cost-effective technology to manufacture wafer sizes greater than 4" before we do, our financial condition, results of operations, competitiveness and prospects will be materially and adversely affected. Variations in our production yields and limitations in the amount of process improvements we can implement could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results could suffer. Our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of saleable chips, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following: •variability in our process repeatability and control; •contamination of the manufacturing environment; •equipment failure, variations in the manufacturing process, or power outages; •lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of components and raw materials; •losses from broken wafers, inventory damage or human errors; •defects in packaging either within our facilities or at our subcontractors; and •any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned. Introduction of new products and manufacturing processes are often characterized by lower yields in the initial commercialization stage. LED chip and component manufacturing is complicated and consists of many layers of complex materials that must interact with each other. In addition, when we introduce new products and processes we often use new chemical solutions and chemical compounds with which we have less experience. We must analyze how the various solutions, compounds and layers of materials interact with each other and perform as parts of the LED chip structure. It takes time for us to analyze the data from our initial manufacturing runs and optimize our processes, and over time we generally achieve higher yield rates as we gain more experience with the product or processes. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields when introducing new products or new manufacturing processes, which has adversely affected our operating results. For example, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we introduced a high-performance LED chip product using a different design with a larger chip size, which required us to modify certain aspects of our manufacturing process to achieve optimal sizing and alignment of various layers, which are critical steps in our manufacturing process. During the early stages of introducing this product, sub-optimal parameters employed in our manufacturing process caused us to experience yields lower than those of 22 Table of Contents our mature products. Over time, we improved these parameters, such as the sizing and alignment of various layers, and were able to improve our yield on this high-performance product. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or the severity of such difficulties and the impact on our business. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements or increased cost efficiencies from other production advances. Failure to achieve these planned improvements or advances could significantly affect our margins and operating results. If we are unable to implement our product innovation strategy effectively, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to be innovative in product design, to deliver new products and improve our manufacturing efficiencies. In particular, as the LED industry develops and technical specifications and market standards change, we must continue to innovate and develop competitive products that are accepted by the marketplace. Our existing or potential customers could develop, or acquire companies that develop, products or technologies that may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our continued success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new, technologically advanced and lower cost products, such as more efficient, higher brightness LED chips. If we are unable to achieve technological breakthroughs, introduce new products that are commercially viable and meet rapidly evolving customer requirements, and keep pace with evolving technological standards and market development, we may experience reduced market share and our ability to compete may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to execute our product innovation strategy effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise, execute our business plan or respond to competition. Some of our packaging customers may reduce orders if they perceive us as competing with them and we may face challenges further expanding our LED components business. In addition, our strategy of marketing our LED components in jurisdictions with limited intellectual property enforcement regimes may limit the markets where we can sell our LED components and may subject our intellectual property rights to infringement. We have recently expanded our sales of LED components and plan to continue to focus on increasing such sales in the future. As we continue to expand our LED components business, some of our packaging customers may perceive us as a competitor and may reduce or cease purchasing our LED chips. If such reduction in orders occurs faster than our growth in our LED components business or if future demand for these products does not grow, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we face challenges in further expanding our LED components business because it involves processes and technologies that are significantly different from our manufacturing processes for LED chips, which has been our core product to date. For example, although still in early stages of development, we are developing advanced-level LED component manufacturing techniques, such as processes that allow us to manufacture wafer-level packaging. However, we have not yet produced wafer-level packaging commercially or in any significant volumes, and may not be able to do so. If we are not able to further develop our LED components business or if competitors create or adopt more advanced packaging technologies than ours, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our distribution strategy limits the sales of our LED components as we are selling only in countries that may not necessarily have the highest demand or market potential. The intellectual property rights related to LED components are particularly complex and characterized by aggressive enforcement of those rights. To minimize the likelihood that one of our competitors or another third party will assert a claim related to our LED components, we have sought to market these products only 23 Table of Contents in countries in which we believe enforcement of intellectual property rights has historically been more limited as identified below, because we believe that, given our early stage of development, it is important for us to consciously manage our exposure to litigation. Any such litigation, whether with or without merit, could divert our management, financial and other resources away from our business and thereby have a negative impact on our continued development and growth. Consistent with this strategy, we currently limit sales of our LED components to distributors and end-customers mainly in China, Taiwan and other countries in which we believe cost of litigation is low. We do not currently sell our LED components in all countries that meet, what we believe to be, an acceptable litigation risk profile. We review profiles of different countries and may determine from time to time that we should sell our products in one or more additional countries that meet our litigation risk profile for sale of our LED components. However, we may not be able to identify additional countries that we find to be suitable markets for these products. We have considered the potential loss of revenues and income that we may suffer as a result of our strategy to sell only in certain select countries and have concluded that, on balance, the potential loss of such revenues and income is not outweighed by the potential litigation risks. Also, there can be no guarantee that, by selling our LED components in these countries, we have not exposed our intellectual property rights, including our patents, to infringement by others. With respect to any potential infringement of our patents and other intellectual property rights by others in countries where we currently sell our LED components, we have considered the potential loss of revenues and income that we may suffer associated with such sales and have made a business judgment that the benefits outweigh any potential loss. In addition, if the countries in which we currently sell our LED components increase their enforcement of intellectual property rights, the risk of litigation would materially increase and our ability to continue to sell our LED components in these markets may be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our LED components and our other products may also be limited in the event that they are subsequently shipped or otherwise resold in a country and a claim is brought against us or our customer pursuant to the intellectual property laws of the country of final destination. If we expand into the lighting fixtures market, we will face additional competition and existing customers may reduce orders. If we expand into the lighting fixtures market, we will face competition from fixtures and bulbs manufactured and marketed by other LED lighting fixture companies and from lighting products incorporating incandescent, fluorescent, halogen, ceramic metal halide or other lighting technology. In addition, many of our existing customers who purchase our LED chips and LED components develop and manufacture lighting fixtures using those chips and components. As we expand into that market, our customers may respond by reducing or discontinuing their orders for our products. This could prevent us from growing or even maintaining our revenues from the sale of LED chips and LED components, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers and generally do not enter into long-term customer contracts. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers, or the failure by one of these customers to pay, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, our top ten customers collectively accounted for 54% of our revenues. Some of our largest customers have changed from year to year primarily as a result of our limited operating history, rapid growth, broadening customer base, and the timing of discrete, large project-based purchases. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, sales to our three largest customers, in aggregate, accounted for 25% of our total revenues. 24 Table of Contents The sales cycle from initial contact to confirmed orders with our customers is typically long and unpredictable. We typically enter into individual purchase orders with large customers, which can be altered, reduced or cancelled with little or no notice to us. We do not generally enter into long-term commitment contracts with our customers. As such, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior and reduce or cancel orders with little or no notice to us. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: •reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our major customers; •loss of one or more of our major customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and •failure of any of our major customers to make timely payment for our products. We rely on certain key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. Our future success depends on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including in particular Mr. Trung T. Doan, our chief executive officer, and Dr. Anh Chuong Tran, our chief operating officer. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees. If any of Mr. Doan, Dr. Tran or others of our key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, if at all. As such, the loss of Mr. Doan, Dr. Tran or other key personnel, including other key members of our management team and certain of our key marketing, sales, product development or technology personnel, could significantly disrupt our operations and prevent the timely achievement of our development strategies and growth, which would likely have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and prospects. Moreover, we may lose some of our customers if any of our officers or key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company. The loss of the services of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting, motivating or retaining sufficiently qualified personnel on terms that are reasonable, or at all. In particular, China SemiLEDs may face difficulties recruiting and retaining suitable employees in sufficient numbers and it may need to invest significant time and resources to train personnel to perform the necessary manufacturing, senior management and administrative functions. The marketing and distribution efforts of our third-party distributors may not be effective, which could negatively affect our ability to expand our business outside of Taiwan and China and damage our brand reputation. We market and sell a significant portion of our products through third-party distributors in certain markets such as Taiwan and China. We rely on these distributors to service end-customers and our failure to maintain strong working relationships with such distributors could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and revenues from such countries and damage our brand reputation. We do not control the activities of our distributors with respect to the marketing and sales of and customer service support for our products. Therefore, the reputation and performance of our distributors and the ability and willingness of our distributors to sell our products, uphold our brand reputation for quality, by providing, for example, high quality service and pre- and post-sales support, and their ability to expand their businesses and their sales channels are essential to the future growth of our business and has a direct and material impact on our sales and profitability in such jurisdictions. Also, as with our individual customers, we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our 25 Table of Contents distributor customers, and they can therefore generally cancel, modify or reduce orders with little or no notice to us. As a result, any reductions or delays in, or cancellations of, orders from any of our distributors may have a negative impact on our sales and budgeting process. In addition, we have entered and may from time to time enter into exclusivity or other restrictions or arrangements of a similar nature as part of our agreements with our distributors. For example, we entered into a distribution agreement with Nanoteco Corp., or Nanoteco, in December 2006, pursuant to which we have appointed Nanoteco as the exclusive distributor of our LED chips to specified customers. The distribution agreement with Nanoteco was originally effective for a term of two years and, in accordance with the agreement, has been automatically extended every December for additional one year terms. The agreement may be terminated at either party's discretion with 60 days' prior written notice and may be terminated for cause immediately upon written notice. We also entered into a collaboration and distribution agreement with Intematix in April 2007, pursuant to which we have appointed Intematix as the exclusive distributor of our LED chips and related products to certain approved customers within China. The distribution agreement with Intematix was originally effective for a term of three years and, in accordance with the agreement, has been automatically extended every April for additional one-year terms. The agreement may be terminated at either party's discretion with 60 days' prior written notice and may be terminated for cause immediately upon written notice. Such restrictions or arrangements may significantly hinder our ability to sell additional products, or enter into agreements with new or existing customers or distributors that plan to sell our products, in certain markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully against those of our competitors who have greater financial resources and are able to provide better incentives to distributors, which may result in reduced sales of our products or the loss of our distributors. The loss of any key distributor may force us to seek replacement distributors, and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly. We are highly dependent on our customers' ability to produce and sell products incorporating our LED products. If our customers are not successful, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our customers incorporate our LED products into their products. As such, demand for our products is dependent on demand for our customers' end-products that incorporate our LED products and our customers' ability to sell these products. The general lighting market has only recently begun to develop and adopt standards for fixtures that incorporate LED devices. If the end-customers for our products are unable to manufacture fixtures that meet these standards, our customers' sales, and consequently our sales, will suffer. With respect to our LED chips, substantially all of our sales are to packagers or distributors, a substantial portion of which is used in LED general lighting applications. Our packaging customers package our LED chips and sell the packaged product to distributors or end-customers. Our distributors resell our LED chips either to packagers or to end-customers. General lighting applications typically require white lighting whereas we typically sell blue chips or chips with other non-white color characteristics. Therefore, our customers coat our LED chips with an appropriately colored phosphor that converts the LED light emission into the desired color. Sales of our LED chips are highly dependent upon our customers' ability to procure high quality phosphors, develop high quality and highly efficient white LED components and obtain the necessary intellectual property rights, such as the rights to use various phosphors. Even if our customers are able to develop competitive white LED components using our LED chips, there can be no assurance that our customers will be successful in the marketplace. With respect to the sale of our LED components, a majority of our sales are to distributors, that sell to end-customers, or directly to such end-customers in selected markets. Sales by end-customers of 26 Table of Contents our products are generally dependent on their ability to develop high quality and highly efficient lighting products and require complex designs and processes, including thermal design, optical design and power conversion. If our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, are not adequately protected to prevent misuse or misappropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including proprietary technologies and trade secrets. In particular, we have developed advanced capabilities and proprietary know-how in sapphire reclamation, gallium nitride, or GaN, epitaxial growth, copper alloy technology, nanoscale surface engineering and vertical LED structure technology that are critical to our business. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensees and third parties with whom we have relationships, and trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken or plan to take in the future are adequate to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets. As of August 31, 2011, we had 48 patents issued and 46 patents pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office covering various aspects of our core technologies. As of August 31, 2011, we also had 52 patents issued and 104 patents pending before patent and trademark offices outside the United States. Of these 100 issued patents, 20 patents expire between the years 2016 and 2020, 43 patents expire between the years 2021 and 2025, and 37 patents expire between the years 2026 and 2035. Of these 100 issued patents and 150 pending patents, 54 are issued design patents and 5 are pending design patents. The foregoing numbers of issued and pending patents did not include those owned or filed by Ning Xiang. We expect to continue to seek patent and trademark protection for our technologies and know-how. However, we will only be able to protect such technologies and know-how from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid, protectable and enforceable rights cover them. We cannot be certain that our patent and trademark applications will lead to patents being issued and registered trademarks being granted in a timely manner, or at all. Even if we are successful in obtaining such rights, the intellectual property laws of other countries in which our products are sold or may in the future be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, China currently is thought to afford less protection to intellectual property rights generally than some other jurisdictions. As such, the lack of strong patent and other intellectual property protection in China may significantly increase our vulnerability as regards unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property and undermine our competitive position. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in LED-related industries are uncertain and still evolving, both in the United States and in other countries. Moreover, the contractual agreements that we enter into with employees, licensees and third parties to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights afford only limited protection and may not be enforceable. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely it will be that competitors will try to develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products and services. In the event that our competitors or others are able to obtain knowledge of our know-how, trade secrets and technologies through independent development, our failure to protect such know-how, trade secrets and technologies and/or our other intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. In addition, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could divert management attention and resources away from our business, and the outcome of 27 Table of Contents such litigation may not be in our favor. If the protection of our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our products and methods of operation. Any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation and competitive position. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. To protect a substantial amount of our technologies, we have chosen to rely primarily on trade secrets law rather than seeking protection through patents. Trade secrets are inherently difficult to protect. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, we rely in part on security measures, as well as confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees and other third parties. These measures and agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. While we believe we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection if any unintentional or willful disclosure by our directors, employees, consultants or contractors of such information occurs, including disclosure by employees during or after the termination of their employment with us, in particular if they were to join one of our competitors. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position. The reduction or elimination of government investment in LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies in certain countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause demand for our products to decline, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, profits and margins. We believe the near-term growth of the LED market will be driven in part by government policies in certain countries that either directly promote the use of LEDs or discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies. Today, the upfront cost of LED lighting exceeds the upfront cost for some traditional lighting technologies that provide similar lumen output in many applications. However, for environmental reasons, among others, some governments around the world have used policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of LED lighting and other non-traditional lighting technologies that are seen as more environmentally-friendly compared to some traditional lighting technologies. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government investment and favorable energy policies could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits, margins and prospects. We will be required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse findings from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and ultimately have an adverse effect on our share price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include a management report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2012. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by 28 Table of Contents our independent registered public accounting firm that must be performed may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, which we will be required to disclose. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management resources and time on compliance related issues. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to meet the requirements of Section 404 or to disclose any material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Moreover, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC and the The Nasdaq Stock Market, and our stated results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. We may undertake joint ventures, investments, acquisitions and other strategic alliances and such undertakings, as well as our existing joint ventures, may be unsuccessful and may have an adverse effect on our business. We have grown our business in part through strategic alliances and acquisitions. For example, we formed China SemiLEDs in January 2010 to focus on the growing market in China; we acquired SBDI in April 2010 to process LED chips into LED components; and in August 2011, we acquired 51% equity interest in Ning Xiang, among other things, to assist with market intelligence. We may in the future continue to grow our operations in part by entering into joint ventures, undertaking acquisitions or establishing other strategic alliances with third parties in the LED and LED-related industries. These activities involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration, and closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions. Our existing joint ventures and acquisitions and any future agreements that we may enter into also could expose us to new operational, regulatory, market, litigation and geographical risks as well as risks associated with significant capital requirements, the diversion of management and financial resources, sharing of proprietary information, loss of control over day-to-day operations, non-performance by a counterparty and potential competition and conflicts of interest. In addition, we may not be successful in finding suitable targets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Even if successfully negotiated and closed, expected synergies from a joint venture, acquisition or other strategic alliance may not materialize or may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may not prove successful or effective for our business. We may need to raise additional debt funding or sell additional equity securities to enter into such joint ventures or make such acquisitions. However, we may not be able to obtain such debt funding or sell equity securities on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required and available, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities, if required and available, could result in dilution to our stockholders. Any undetected defects in our products may harm our sales and reputation and adversely affect our manufacturing yields. The manufacture of LED chips is highly complex, requiring precise processes in a highly controlled and sterile environment using specialized equipment. We manufacture our LED products to meet 29 Table of Contents customer requirements with respect to quality, performance and reliability. Although we utilize quality control procedures at each stage of our manufacturing process, our products may still contain defects that are undetected until after they are shipped or inspected by our customers. Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional expenses, including costs in relation to product warranties, cancellation and rescheduling of orders and shipments, and product returns or recalls. Failure to detect and rectify defects in our products before delivery could subject us to product liability claims and harm our credibility and market reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we do not currently have fully automated manufacturing processes, which could potentially introduce contaminants to the production processes through human error. Defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can prevent us from achieving maximum capacity utilization, which is the actual number of wafers that we are able to produce in relation to our capacity, and also can prevent acceptable yields of quality LED chips from those wafers. Unfavorable economic or global market conditions are likely to continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure in the United States and international markets to sustain meaningful recovery has led to continued slow economic activity, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced capital spending and adverse business conditions, as well as diminished liquidity and credit availability in many financial markets. In addition, the global economic recession has led to reduced spending in our target markets and made it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Continued weak economic conditions and further adverse trends in general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation and taxation have in the past and may again in the future cause consumer spending to decline further, reduce demand for and prices of our products and our customers' products, affect the prices and availability of raw materials, limit our ability to obtain financing for our operations and constrain the ability or willingness of governments to invest in the LED industry or fund public projects using LED lighting products. Furthermore, our customers may be unable to access capital efficiently, or at all, which could adversely affect our financial condition by resulting in product delays, increased defaults in accounts receivables and increased inventory exposures. Any unfavorable economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on an adequate and timely supply of electricity and water. We consume significant amounts of electricity and water in our manufacturing process. We may experience future disruptions or shortages in our electricity or water supply, which could result in a drop in or loss of throughput and product yield or even the loss of an entire production run, depending on the duration of disruption or shortage. Although we maintain generators and other backup sources of electricity, these replacement sources are only capable of providing effective backup supplies for limited periods of time. We do not currently have any alternative sources of water nor do we maintain backup tanks. We cannot assure you that we will not experience disruptions or shortages in our electricity or water supply or that there will be sufficient electricity and water available to us to meet our future requirements. Any material disruption could significantly impact our normal business operations, cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws, which can result in significant costs, and may affect our business and operating results. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including acids, adhesives and other industrial chemicals. As a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, transportation, emission, discharge, exposure to, and disposal of such hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate can be costly, and there can be no assurance that violations of these laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure, or other causes. Liability under environmental and health and safety laws can be joint and several, and without regard to fault or negligence. The failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could subject us to increased costs and significant fines and penalties, damages, legal liabilities, suspension of production or operations, alteration of our manufacturing facilities or processes, curtailment of our sales and adverse publicity. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, China SemiLEDs is required to obtain the relevant approvals from PRC environmental protection authorities at its manufacturing facility, and there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain such approvals in a timely manner, or at all. Furthermore, environmental protection and workplace safety regulations may become more stringent in the future, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they may impose greater compliance costs or result in increased risks or penalties, which could harm our business. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. As our industry continues to evolve, we may be required to evaluate and use new materials in our manufacturing process that may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations, and our use of such new materials may be restricted. Any such restriction could require us to alter our manufacturing processes or increase our expenses. If we fail to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, whether intentional or inadvertent, we may be required to pay fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, suspend production or even cease operation. We have operations and sales in various jurisdictions globally, which may subject us to increasingly complex taxation laws and regulations. As a multinational organization with operations and sales in various jurisdictions, we may be subject to taxation in such jurisdictions. The various tax laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, with the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations becoming more challenging and uncertain. We may be subject to additional taxes, fines and penalties to the extent we are not correct in our interpretation and the amount of taxes we declare and pay. In addition, given the continuing global economic slowdown as well as high government debt levels of many countries, there is an increasing likelihood that the amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially. Any such events would have a material impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of our operations. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability. We conduct operations through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing 31 Table of Contents procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms' length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Proposed U.S. federal income tax legislation could negatively impact our effective tax rate. Recent proposed tax legislation that could be enacted in the future could substantially impact the tax treatment of our non-U.S. earnings. These proposed changes include limitations on the ability to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and require the deferral of interest expense deductions until non-U.S. earnings are taxed in or repatriated to the United States. Such proposed legislation, if enacted, could negatively impact the amount of our taxes payable in the United States and our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Investment in China SemiLEDs We may not be successful in executing our China strategy through China SemiLEDs. Given the significance of the China market as part of our business strategy, our net income growth and overall growth prospects are significantly dependent on the success of China SemiLEDs. China SemiLEDs, which recently commenced production at its Foshan manufacturing facility, is the first operating entity we have established in China and we have not had prior experience in establishing, constructing and managing design, manufacture and sales operations of the scale that is contemplated at China SemiLEDs. In addition, our management and other key personnel will also have to devote significant managerial time and resources to help grow China SemiLEDs' business, which could result in the diversion of our management resources away from our current business operations and customers. A majority of the members of the board of directors of China SemiLEDs are our employees, including our chief executive officer, Mr. Trung T. Doan, and our chief operating officer, Dr. Anh Chuong Tran. Mr. Doan and Dr. Tran serve as chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of the board of directors of China SemiLEDs. Although we are not legally obligated to further fund China SemiLEDs, we may need to provide it with additional funding to meet our and its goals, in particular if the government subsidies and incentives that it currently receives were to be eliminated or reduced. China SemiLEDs must be profitable for us to recoup the cost of our investment and realize financial benefits from this joint venture. However, we cannot assure you that our investment will be profitable or that China SemiLEDs will be successful as it could fail for a number of reasons, some of which are beyond our control. We do not own a majority of the shares of China SemiLEDs and if there are significant disagreements with the other shareholders of China SemiLEDs, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the articles of association of China SemiLEDs, we have the right to nominate a majority of its board of directors. However, we only own 49% of the shares of the joint venture, and if all of the other shareholders of China SemiLEDs vote unanimously on a matter, such shareholders 32 Table of Contents would effectively control China SemiLEDs with respect to any matters that require stockholder approval by a simple majority. Although special resolutions, which require the approval of stockholders representing at least two-thirds of the shares of China SemiLEDs, are necessary for certain corporate actions, including any increase or reduction in the registered capital, any merger, separation, dissolution or change of the form of China SemiLEDs or any amendments to its articles of association, we cannot assure you that disputes will not arise with respect to the interpretation and application of the provision requiring special resolutions or that the other shareholders of China SemiLEDs will not exercise their voting rights to the detriment of our interests in other matters. Our right to nominate a majority of the board terminates if China SemiLEDs is listed on a stock exchange. In addition, the number of directors we can nominate declines as the percentage of the outstanding shares of China SemiLEDs that we hold declines below 41%. If our percentage ownership is diluted because China SemiLEDs issues additional common stock for any reason, including to raise capital or effect acquisitions or as a result of the issuance of options to purchase equity or direct equity grants to China SemiLEDs employees or other eligible persons, our ability to control or influence board decisions or the operation of the business could be substantially diminished or eliminated. Furthermore, under its articles of association, if a director has a connected relationship with any enterprise that is the subject of a resolution at a board meeting, such director may not vote on the matter, either directly or by proxy. As such, in the event that any matters involving us or our relationship with China SemiLEDs are brought before the board of directors of China SemiLEDs, our directors would be required to recuse themselves and such board decisions would be made by the remaining directors that are not affiliated with us. Although we and the other non-selling stockholders have a right of first refusal with respect to the sale by any of the other shareholders of their interests in China SemiLEDs, if we do not exercise such rights, or are unable to do so, new stockholders will become our partners in the joint venture. These new partners may have different interests, objectives and strategic plans that conflict with ours or those of the other shareholders in China SemiLEDs. In addition, no assurance can be given that existing or potential new shareholders of China SemiLEDs will not invest in a competitor or become our competitor in China or elsewhere, which could lead to significant conflicts, including the disclosure of proprietary information, and lead to contested stockholder votes and attempts by such stockholder to influence China SemiLEDs to take actions that are not favorable to us. Any disputes between us and the other shareholders of China SemiLEDs may lead to adverse consequences for the growth prospects of China SemiLEDs and its and our ability to further access and penetrate the China market and also may result in litigation. China SemiLEDs may compete with us for sales in China. For the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, 47%, 35% and 22%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from sales to customers in China (including Hong Kong). Under various intellectual property agreements between us and China SemiLEDs, we transferred patents and granted licenses with respect to certain of our patents to China SemiLEDs so that it can manufacture and sell LED chips in China. As a result, both China SemiLEDs and Taiwan SemiLEDs sell substantially the same LED chips in China. China SemiLEDs and Taiwan SemiLEDs may from time to time compete for the same pool of existing or new customers, in particular if demand for LED products decreases or does not increase. We do not consolidate the financial results of China SemiLEDs in our consolidated financial statements but instead record 49% of the net income or loss from China SemiLEDs in our consolidated statements of operations as equity in income (losses) from unconsolidated entities. If China SemiLEDs makes significant sales to customers in China that would have otherwise been made by Taiwan SemiLEDs, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected, and if the amount we record 33 Table of Contents under equity in income (losses) from unconsolidated entities for those sales does not compensate for the impact of the loss of the sale by Taiwan SemiLEDs, then our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We and China SemiLEDs do not currently have a formal policy in place to resolve sales conflicts between China SemiLEDs and Taiwan SemiLEDs. Any determination of whether orders in China should be fulfilled by China SemiLEDs or us has thus far been made on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration various criteria. Moreover, because China SemiLEDs only recently commenced production and sales of its products, we do not yet know the full nature or extent of direct sales competition that may develop between China SemiLEDs and us in terms of allocating customers between China SemiLEDs and us. In addition, we have not yet devised a mechanism to resolve conflicts relating to Mr. Doan and Dr. Tran serving as both our officers and directors and also the chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, of China SemiLEDs, or by whom such conflicts will be resolved. If the sales competition or conflicts are frequent or severe, we may be unable to resolve them in a timely or satisfactory manner. Where a business opportunity is available to both China SemiLEDs and us, we could be harmed in many ways, including if the sales competition or conflict results in: •neither China SemiLEDs nor us obtaining the business opportunity; •China SemiLEDs obtaining the opportunity instead of us; •confusion in the market because we are unable to manage the conflict and distinguish each entity; •damage to our relationship with the officers, directors and other shareholders of China SemiLEDs or us; •our officers no longer serving as directors of China SemiLEDs or as our officers or directors; or •legal action or the threat of legal action against us, China SemiLEDs or our respective officers, directors or stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will not have significant disputes concerning the scope of our intellectual property agreements with China SemiLEDs, and the non-compete provisions between us and China SemiLEDs may constrain our ability to grow in China, both of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into various patent assignment and cross-license agreements with China SemiLEDs, pursuant to which we agreed to assign certain patents to China SemiLEDs and grant royalty-free, exclusive and non-transferable licenses with respect to certain other patents to China SemiLEDs for use in manufacturing LED chips in China. In return, China SemiLEDs agreed to grant us a royalty-free, transferable and exclusive license to use the assigned patents globally except in manufacturing LED wafers and chips in China. Pursuant to the cross-license agreements all future patents acquired by China SemiLEDs will be licensed to us for use in manufacturing or selling LED products globally. Under a trademark cross-license agreement, we agreed to grant China SemiLEDs a royalty-free, exclusive license to use our "SemiLEDs" trademark within China, subject to certain conditions. We have also agreed to certain non-compete provisions in favor of China SemiLEDs. In particular, we cannot invest in any other company that is engaged in the production of LED wafers or chips in China. We also cannot engage in the production of LED wafers or chips directly or indirectly, in the form of original equipment manufacturing or outsourcing, in China. Finally, we cannot allow any third party to which we transfer or license our technologies to apply such technologies in the production of LED wafers or chips in China. 34 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will not have disputes with the other shareholders of China SemiLEDs regarding the scope of the intellectual property rights licensed, our rights under the cross-licensing agreements or the scope of the non-compete provisions. In addition, if China SemiLEDs is not successful, these non-compete provisions and the limitations in the intellectual property cross-licensing agreements could prohibit us from entering into other strategic joint ventures and relationships in China and from entering certain markets in China, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If China SemiLEDs' management takes actions that are detrimental to us, our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The day-to-day management of China SemiLEDs will be conducted by its general manager, deputy general manager and other senior personnel. Although the board of directors appoints and may dismiss the general manager and the general manager must implement board resolutions and report to the board, the general manager of China SemiLEDs and other members of its management will have significant operational control over China SemiLEDs. While we intend to actively monitor and, to the extent possible, direct the operations of China SemiLEDs through our five board members, we cannot assure you that the management of China SemiLEDs will not take actions that are detrimental to our interests. Any significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentives or subsidies offered to China SemiLEDs may harm our and its financial condition. Certain local and provincial governments of the PRC have offered China SemiLEDs support in the form of incentives, including subsidies with respect to the construction of manufacturing facilities, interest rates on loans and equipment purchases, and research and development grants. For the years ended August 31, 2010 and 2011, China SemiLEDs received government subsidies for construction and equipment purchases and government grants for research and development of RMB87.8 million (approximately $12.9 million) and RMB57.9 million (approximately $9.1 million), respectively. There can be no assurance that such local and provincial governments will not significantly reduce or even eliminate some or all of these government incentives or subsidies. In addition, such incentives and subsidies, which were approved and provided by local and provincial government authorities, may be in contravention of PRC national written rules and regulations and therefore, such incentives and subsidies may be challenged by the PRC national government. Risks Relating to Our Holding Company Structure Our ability to receive dividends and other payments from Taiwan SemiLEDs and China SemiLEDs may be restricted by commercial and legal restrictions, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We are a holding company. Our two material assets are our ownership interest in Taiwan SemiLEDs and our joint venture interest in China SemiLEDs. Dividends and interest on intercompany loans we receive from our subsidiaries in Taiwan, if any, will be subject to withholding tax under Taiwan law. The ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to pay dividends, repay intercompany loans from us or make other distributions to us is restricted by, among other things, the availability of funds, the terms of various credit arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries located in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, we cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will not be changed and that the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be restricted in the future. A Taiwan company is generally not permitted to distribute dividends or to make any other distributions to 35 Table of Contents stockholders for any year in which it did not have either earnings or retained earnings (excluding reserves). In addition, before distributing a dividend to stockholders following the end of a fiscal year, the company must recover any past losses, pay all outstanding taxes and set aside 10% of its annual net income (less prior years' losses and outstanding taxes) as a legal reserve until the accumulated legal reserve equals its paid-in capital, and may set aside a special reserve. We expect that a substantial portion of our LED chips business in China will be conducted through China SemiLEDs. The payment of dividends by entities established in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. PRC subsidiaries are generally required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their statutory capital reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their respective registered capital, which is approximately RMB102.4 million (approximately $16.2 million) for China SemiLEDs. Statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. China SemiLEDs recently commenced production; however, it is in the early stages of business development and selling products in China. We expect that it will incur losses for the near term. In addition, any dividends paid by China SemiLEDs (after deduction of the necessary reserve fund and enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%) require the approval of the affirmative vote of the shareholders of China SemiLEDs, which may not be given. The remittance of such dividends outside of China must comply with the procedures required by the relevant PRC laws relating to foreign exchange. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law and its implementation regulations, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, we will be subject to a withholding tax rate of 10% for any dividends paid by China SemiLEDs to us if we are deemed a non-PRC tax resident. Our ability to make further investments in Taiwan SemiLEDs may be dependent on regulatory approvals in Taiwan and, with respect to China SemiLEDs, regulatory approvals in China. Taiwan SemiLEDs depends on us and China SemiLEDs depends on us and its other stockholders to meet their equity financing requirements. Any capital contribution by us to Taiwan SemiLEDs requires the approval of the relevant Taiwan authorities such as the Hsinchu Science Park Administration. We may not be able to obtain any such approval in the future in a timely manner, or at all. Any loans or capital contributions to PRC subsidiaries including China SemiLEDs are subject to PRC regulations in connection with foreign investment and foreign exchange administration. For example, loans by us to China SemiLEDs to fund its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China, or SAFE, or its local branch, and additional capital contributions would be subject to government approvals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete these government registrations or obtain the government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to complete these registrations or obtain the approvals, our ability to use the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and to capitalize Taiwan SemiLEDs and China SemiLEDs may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 36 Table of Contents The rights of stockholders may be limited as we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in Taiwan and in China, and a substantial portion of our assets and a majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in Delaware, substantially all of our operations are conducted in Taiwan through Taiwan SemiLEDs and its subsidiaries and in China through China SemiLEDs. As such, substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan or the PRC. In addition, a majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of Taiwan and China may render you unable to enforce a United States judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. For judgments obtained in courts outside of Taiwan to be recognized and enforceable in Taiwan without review of the merits, the Taiwan court in which the enforcement is sought must be satisfied that: the foreign court rendering such judgment has jurisdiction over the subject matter in accordance with the Taiwan law; the judgment and the court procedure resulting in the judgment are not contrary to the public order or good morals of Taiwan; the judgment is a final judgment for which the period for appeal has expired or from which no appeal can be taken; if the judgment was rendered by default by the foreign court, the defendant was duly served in the jurisdiction of such court within a reasonable period of time in accordance with the laws and regulations of such jurisdiction, or process was served on the defendant with the Taiwan judicial assistance; and judgment of Taiwan courts is recognized and enforceable in the foreign court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis. The recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. PRC courts may recognize and enforce foreign judgments, which do not otherwise violate basic legal principles, state sovereignty, safety or social public interest of the PRC, in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based either on treaties between the PRC and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. As there currently exists no treaty or other form of reciprocity between the PRC and the United States governing the recognition of judgments, including those predicated upon the liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, there is uncertainty whether and on what basis a PRC court would recognize and enforce judgments rendered by U.S. courts. Political, Geographical and Economic Risks Due to the location of our operations in Taiwan and the location of the operations of China SemiLEDs, we are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, which may seriously disrupt our operations. Most of our operations, and the operations of many of our LED manufacturing service providers, suppliers and customers are located in Taiwan and the PRC. For the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, 79%, 76% and 68%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from customers located in Taiwan and China (including Hong Kong). Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, droughts, typhoons, fires, power losses and other major catastrophic events, including the outbreak, or threatened outbreak, of any widespread communicable diseases. Disruption of operations due to any of these events may require us to evacuate personnel or suspend operations, which could reduce our productivity. Such disasters may also damage our facilities and equipment and cause us to incur additional costs to repair our facilities or procure new equipment, or result in personal injuries or fatalities or result in the termination of our leases and land use agreements. Any resulting delays in shipments of our products could also cause our customers to obtain products from other sources. Although we maintain property insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business losses from earthquakes and catastrophic other events 37 Table of Contents will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and typhoons, may also disrupt or seriously affect the operations of our customers and suppliers, resulting in reduced orders or shipments or the inability to perform contractual obligations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in China expose us to certain inherent legal and other risks that could adversely affect our business. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign companies operating in China in general and specifically to the laws and regulations applicable to foreign invested joint stock companies. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. The PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve and the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, China SemiLEDs must obtain relevant permits (including land use permits), licenses and approvals necessary for the completion of its factory, to purchase equipment and to commence operations and sales. Although we believe that China SemiLEDs and Shenzhen SemiLEDs as well as any future operating subsidiaries in China have obtained or will obtain such permits, licenses and approvals, no assurance can be given that they will be able to do so or that if obtained that such permits, licenses or approvals will be adequate or that they will not be revoked or cancelled in the future. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities (including local government authorities), thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we have either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we have. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. Because the legal and regulatory environment in China is subject to inherent uncertainties, the enforcement of our rights as a foreign company investing in China may be difficult. For example, our intellectual property may be afforded less protection in China than in some other countries. By entering the market in China in general and in particular by establishing manufacturing operations in China through China SemiLEDs, our vulnerability towards unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property may be significantly increased. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the relative unpredictability of China's legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, we may be unable to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation, which could adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to attract customers, and our results of operations. 38 Table of Contents New labor laws in China may adversely affect China SemiLEDs' results of operations, our results of operations, or those of our customers. On June 29, 2007, the PRC legislative promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly affects the cost of an employer's decision to reduce its workforce. If an employer intends to terminate an employee or not to renew an employment contract upon its expiration, the employer is obligated to pay severance calculated based on the service years and monthly salary of such employee (except for certain special circumstances expressly provided for under the PRC laws and the employer's internal rules made in accordance with the PRC laws). Furthermore, only under certain circumstances expressly provided for under the Labor Contract Law and the employer's internal rules made in accordance with the PRC laws, can the employer terminate the employment contract. In the event that China SemiLEDs or Shenzhen SemiLEDs or any of our future operating subsidiaries in China would decide to significantly change or decrease its workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect their ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to their respective business or in a timely and cost-effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. China SemiLEDs and any of our China operations may face labor shortages, strikes and other disturbances. In recent years, certain regions of China have been experiencing a labor shortage as migrant workers and middle-level management seek better wages and working conditions elsewhere. This trend of labor shortages is expected to continue and will likely result in increasing wages as companies seek to keep their existing work forces. In addition, substantial competition in China for qualified and capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technical personnel, may make it difficult for China SemiLEDs and Shenzhen SemiLEDs or any of our future operating subsidiaries in China to recruit and retain qualified employees at their respective China facilities, which would adversely affect their profitability as well as our reported net income. Furthermore, certain foreign owned enterprises in southern China, in particular in Foshan and Zhongshan in Guangdong Province have recently witnessed significant labor disturbances, including prolonged strikes and work stoppages. No assurance can be given that China SemiLEDs, which is also located in Foshan, Guangdong Province, and Shenzhen SemiLEDs or any of our future operating subsidiaries in China, or any of our customers in China will not experience similar labor disturbances related to working conditions, wages or other reasons. Any labor shortages, strikes and other disturbances may adversely affect future operating results of China SemiLEDs or Shenzhen SemiLEDs or any of our future operating subsidiaries in China and result in negative publicity and reputational harm. Strained relations between the PRC and Taiwan could negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the PRC have been separately governed. The PRC government claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has refused to renounce the possibility that it may at some point use force to gain control over Taiwan. Furthermore, the PRC government adopted an anti-secession law relating to Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC governments have been strained in recent years for a variety of reasons, including the PRC government's position on the "One China" policy and tensions concerning arms sales to Taiwan by the United States government. Any tension between the Taiwan government and the PRC government, or between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents If the U.S. dollar or other currencies in which our sales, raw materials, component purchases and capital expenditures are denominated fluctuate significantly against the New Taiwan, or NT, dollar, the Japanese Yen and other currencies, our profitability may be seriously affected. We have significant foreign currency exposure, and are primarily affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the NT dollar, the Japanese Yen and other currencies. A portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily U.S. dollars and to a lesser extent the Japanese Yen. We do not hedge our net foreign exchange positions through the use of forward exchange contracts or otherwise and as a result we are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the NT dollar, the Japanese Yen and other currencies. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government's control of currency conversion and changes in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and other currencies could negatively affect our financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE, provided that we satisfy certain procedural requirements. However, approval from SAFE or its local counterpart is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our revenue from sales in China (including Hong Kong) accounted for 47%, 35% and 22% of our total revenue for the years ended August 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, China SemiLEDs recently commenced production at its Foshan manufacturing facilities. Since substantially all of China SemiLEDs' cash flow from operations is expected to be denominated and settled in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit China SemiLEDs' ability to purchase goods and services outside of China or otherwise fund its business activities that are conducted in foreign currencies. If the PRC government determines that China SemiLEDs failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, China SemiLEDs' current and past import and export of technologies, China SemiLEDs could be subject to sanctions. The PRC government imposes controls on technology import and export. The term "technology import and export" is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology require either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. We have transferred and licensed certain of our technologies to China SemiLEDs, which transfers and licenses may constitute technology import under PRC laws. China SemiLEDs has also licensed and will continue to license certain technologies to us, which licenses constitute technology export under PRC laws. In addition, China SemiLEDs may enter into licenses with other third parties outside of China for certain technologies, which licenses would also constitute the import or export of technology under PRC laws. China SemiLEDs has not obtained the approval of, or completed the applicable registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities for some of its import and export of these technologies. If China SemiLEDs is found to be, or has been, in violation of PRC laws or regulations concerning the import or export of technologies, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting China SemiLEDs from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies 40 Table of Contents outside of China, confiscating China SemiLEDs' earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting its future export and import of any technology. If the PRC government determines that China SemiLEDs' past import and export of technology were inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of its business, it could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to China SemiLEDs' business operations or render it unable to conduct a substantial portion of its business operations and may adversely affect its business and result of operations. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, may not be subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage. In the past, there have been instances of corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices in Taiwan and China, as well as other Asian countries. We cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in corrupt or fraudulent business practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and you may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to broad fluctuations. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various risk factors listed in this section and others beyond our control, including: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results; •changes in the composition of and the orders received from our customers; •actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate; •issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts that have a change in outlook regarding the performance of our business or the future trading price of our common stock; •our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected or expected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected; •fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; •sales or expected sales of additional common stock; •announcements from, or operating results of, our competitors; and •general economic and market conditions. 41 Table of Contents Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of November 10, 2011, 27.3 million shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. The lock-up agreements with directors and officers, and holders of substantially all of our outstanding equity securities expired in June 2011. In addition, the holders of more than a majority of shares of our common stock are entitled to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. As of the date hereof, we have not received any such request to register shares. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of such registration. Such shares may also be sold subject to compliance with the requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In December of 2010, we also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register approximately 3.2 million shares for issuance pursuant to options or other rights to purchase common stock under our equity incentive plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the applicable plan and/or the agreements entered into with holders of options or other rights to purchase common stock in connection with the issuance of such options or other rights to purchase common stock. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of November 10, 2011, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, more than a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, certain of these stockholders acting alone or these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •limiting stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters; •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. There can be no assurance that our interests will not conflict with those of these stockholders, who may also take actions that are not in line, or may conflict, with our other stockholders' best interests. 42 Table of Contents We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution. We may require additional capital due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If our current sources of capital are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain bank loans and credit facilities. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of further indebtedness, whether in the form of public debt or bonds or bank financing, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: •our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the trading price of our common stock; •the state of global credit markets and our creditworthiness; •general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and •economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan, China and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that financing, if needed, would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or convertible preferred stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or maintain the price at which our stockholders purchased their shares. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. As long as our major stockholder, Simplot Taiwan, Inc., which is beneficially owned by Scott R. Simplot, one of our directors, continues to hold 25% or more of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, shareholders holding at least 25% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors are able to call a special meeting in accordance with our bylaws; provided, however, at such time when the ownership interest of Simplot Taiwan, Inc. first falls below 25% of our total voting power, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that a special meeting may be called only by a majority of our board of directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation precludes stockholder action by written consent. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change our control. 43 Table of Contents Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 