Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those we may make from time to time. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Pending Acquisition by Mallinckrodt plc The announcement and pendency of the acquisition by Mallinckrodt of us pursuant to a tender offer and subsequent merger of us with a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Mallinckrodt could have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. The announcement and pendency of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger could disrupt our business in the following ways, among others: • third parties may determine to delay or defer purchase decisions with regard to our product or terminate and/or attempt to renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements with us or otherwise; • the attention of our management may be directed toward the completion of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger and related matters, and their focus may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of our company, including from other opportunities that might otherwise be beneficial to us; and • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty regarding their future roles with Mallinckrodt, which might adversely affect our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key personnel and may adversely affect the focus of our employees on sales of our product. Should they occur, any of these matters could adversely affect our stock price or harm our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger that are different from, or are in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. These interests include direct or indirect ownership of our common stock, stock options and restricted stock units, and the potential receipt of change in control or other severance payments in connection with the proposed tender offer and merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to acquire us prior to the completion of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and the merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it difficult for us to entertain a third-party proposal for an acquisition of our company. These provisions include our agreement not to solicit or initiate any additional discussions with third parties regarding other proposals for our acquisition, as well as restrictions on our ability to respond to such proposals, subject to fulfillment of certain fiduciary requirements of our board of directors. The Merger Agreement also contains certain termination rights, including, under certain circumstances, a requirement for us to pay to Mallinckrodt a termination fee of approximately $20.2 million, or approximately 1.5% of the purchase price. 24 Table of Contents These provisions might discourage an otherwise-interested third party from considering or proposing an acquisition of our company, even one that may be deemed of greater value to our stockholders than the Mallinckrodt offer. Furthermore, even if a third party elects to propose an acquisition, the concept of a termination fee may result in that third party’s offering of a lower value to our stockholders than such third party might otherwise have offered. Obtaining required approvals necessary to satisfy the conditions to the completion of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and the merger may delay or prevent completion of the proposed acquisition. The completion of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and the merger are conditioned upon the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act. We intend to pursue all required approvals in accordance with the Merger Agreement. However, no assurance can be given that the required approvals will be obtained and, even if all such approvals are obtained, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals or that they will satisfy the terms of the Merger Agreement. Litigation may be filed against us and the members of our board of directors challenging the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger and an adverse judgment in any such lawsuit may prevent the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger from being completed within the expected timeframe or at all. Historically, following the announcement of a proposed merger, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company and its board of directors, and similar lawsuits have been filed against us relating to the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger. Any adverse judgment in this litigation or any other such litigation may prevent the tender offer and the merger from being completed within the expected timeframe or at all. Failure to complete the Mallinckrodt tender offer and the merger could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or our stock price. The completion of the Mallinckrodt tender offer and merger are subject to a number of conditions, including the tender of a sufficient number of shares held by our current stockholders pursuant to the tender offer and clearance under the HSR Act, and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the tender offer and the merger will be satisfied. The Merger Agreement may also be terminated by us and Mallinckrodt in certain specified circumstances, including, subject to compliance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, by us in order to accept a third-party acquisition proposal that our board of directors determines constitutes a superior proposal upon payment of a $20.2 million termination fee to Mallinckrodt. If the tender offer and the merger are not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including: • the current trading price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • certain of our executive officers, employees and/or directors may seek other opportunities; • we expect to incur substantial transaction costs in connection with the tender offer and the merger whether or not they are completed; and • under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, which restrictions could adversely affect our ability to realize certain of our business strategies or take advantage of certain business opportunities. If the tender offer and the merger are not completed, these risks may materialize and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our success depends on the commercial success of our only product, OFIRMEV. Our success depends on the continued success of our efforts to commercialize our only product, OFIRMEV, which was approved by the FDA in November 2010 for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics and the reduction of fever in adults and children two years of age and older. We launched OFIRMEV in January 2011, but our ability to maintain and increase revenues from sales of OFIRMEV will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to increase market demand for OFIRMEV through our own marketing and sales activities, and any other arrangements to promote this product we may later establish; • our ability to maintain and defend our patent protection and regulatory exclusivity for OFIRMEV; • our ability to continue to procure a supply of OFIRMEV from our sole source third-party manufacturer in sufficient quantities and at acceptable quality and pricing levels in order to meet commercial demand; • the performance of our third-party manufacturer and our ability to ensure that our supply chain for OFIRMEV efficiently and consistently delivers OFIRMEV to our customers; • our ability to continue to deploy and support a qualified sales force; • our ability to maintain fees and discounts payable to the wholesalers and distributors who distribute OFIRMEV, as well as to group purchasing organizations, at commercially reasonable levels; • whether the FTC, DOJ or third parties seek to challenge and are successful in challenging our settlement agreements with Perrigo and Sandoz; • warnings or limitations that we may be required to add to OFIRMEV’s FDA-approved labeling; • the occurrence of adverse side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy of OFIRMEV, and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls; and • our ability to achieve hospital formulary acceptance for OFIRMEV, and to the extent third-party payors separately cover and reimburse for OFIRMEV, the availability of adequate levels of reimbursement for OFIRMEV from third-party payors. Any disruption in our ability to generate revenues from the sale of OFIRMEV or lack of success in its commercialization will have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations. The continued success of our commercialization of OFIRMEV is subject to many internal and external challenges and if we cannot overcome these challenges in a timely manner, our revenues and profits could be materially and adversely impacted. OFIRMEV was launched in January 2011. Since that time, we have continued to expend significant time and resources to provide effective promotional materials to our sales force and medical and scientific support materials for our medical affairs staff for their use in communicating about OFIRMEV with physicians, nurses, hospitals and other customers, and to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about OFIRMEV is being delivered to our potential customers. The effectiveness of our promotional and medical communication materials about OFIRMEV is critically important to our efforts to inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of OFIRMEV and its proper administration, and the continued success of our commercialization activities for the product. In addition to extensive internal efforts, the continued successful commercialization of OFIRMEV requires many third parties, over whom we have no control, to decide to utilize OFIRMEV and to make it readily 26 Table of Contents available at the point of care throughout their hospitals. These third parties include physicians, pharmacists, and hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees, which are commonly referred to as P&T committees. Generally, before we can attempt to sell OFIRMEV in a hospital, OFIRMEV must be approved for addition to that hospital’s list of approved drugs, or formulary list, by the hospital’s P&T committee. A hospital’s P&T committee typically governs all matters pertaining to the use of medications within the institution, including review of medication formulary data and recommendations for the appropriate use of drugs within the institution to the medical staff. The frequency of P&T committee meetings at various hospitals varies considerably, and P&T committees often require additional information to aide in their decision-making process, so we may experience substantial delays in obtaining formulary approvals. Additionally, hospital pharmacists may be concerned that the cost of acquiring OFIRMEV for use in their institutions will adversely impact their overall pharmacy budgets, which could cause pharmacists to resist efforts to add OFIRMEV to the formulary, or to implement restrictions on the usage of the drug in order to control costs, either initially or later, when the increasing use of OFIRMEV within their institution begins to significantly impact their budgets. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in getting the approvals we need from enough P&T committees and overcoming any financial objections raised by hospital pharmacists quickly enough to maintain and grow hospital sales of OFIRMEV. We have no manufacturing capabilities and depend entirely upon our sole source contract manufacturer to produce OFIRMEV. If our contract manufacturer fails to meet our requirements for OFIRMEV, or fails to fully comply with cGMP regulations, we may be unable to meet market demand, and may lose potential revenues. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls, and the use of specialized processing equipment. We have no such manufacturing capabilities, so we have relied upon contract manufacturers as our source for OFIRMEV. In February 2013, we amended our supply agreement with Lawrence Laboratories, an operating division of Swords Laboratories and a member of the BMS group of companies, under which BMS Anagni, an indirect subsidiary of BMS located in Anagni, Italy, manufactures OFIRMEV for us on behalf of Lawrence Laboratories. BMS Anagni has manufactured the product for more than ten years for sale and distribution by BMS and its affiliates in a number of countries outside of the U.S. and Canada. Any termination or disruption of our relationship with BMS Anagni, which is currently our sole source for OFIRMEV, may materially harm our business and financial condition and adversely impact our commercialization and sales efforts with respect to the product. We also currently rely upon a single source for the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for OFIRMEV, as well as for other critical components of OFIRMEV. If our contract manufacturer or API supplier, or any other supplier of critical components for OFIRMEV, becomes unable to meet our supply requirements, the process of changing or adding a new contract manufacturer or critical component supplier may require additional testing and prior FDA approval and may be expensive and time-consuming. If we were unable to manage such changes effectively, we could face supply disruptions that could result in significant costs and delays, damage to our reputation or commercial prospects and cause us to lose potential revenues. In March 2013, we entered into an agreement with Grifols for the development, manufacture and supply of commercial quantities of OFIRMEV in flexible plastic bags. We submitted a supplemental NDA to the FDA in December 2013 seeking approval of the product to be manufactured by Grifols, but Grifols will not be able to supply us with OFIRMEV until FDA approval is granted, if ever. Any contract manufacturer for OFIRMEV must comply with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations, including GMP regulations. The FDA will inspect a contract manufacturer’s facilities from time to time and, in the event that any such inspection reveals that the facility is not in compliance with applicable 27 Table of Contents regulations, the FDA may issue fines and civil penalties, suspend production, suspend or delay any subsequent product approvals, seize or recall our products, or withdraw our product approval, which would limit the availability of OFIRMEV. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and our relationships with our customers, product liability claims and litigation. Although we actively manage these third party relationships to ensure continuity and quality, some events beyond our control could result in the complete or partial failure of these goods and services. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. In addition, as OFIRMEV is a relatively new product in the U.S., the effect of any delay or failure to deliver could be magnified due to the short sales track record for OFIRMEV. For example, in 2012, we announced two voluntary recalls of OFIRMEV manufactured by Baxter, our previous contract manufacturer, due to the presence of unidentified, visible particles in a limited number of vials of the product, which were detected during routine stability testing. Although we received no adverse event reports associated with the particulate matter or product complaints involving similar particulate matter, as a precautionary measure we suspended production by Baxter in connection with the initial recall and decided to recall all remaining lots of OFIRMEV manufactured by Baxter in connection with the second recall. Additionally, following the first recall, some of our customers experienced short-term supply delays due to the suspension of shipments from Baxter until we were able to expedite sufficient shipments of OFIRMEV from BMS Anagni, and we incurred higher freight costs associated with the expedited product shipments. We also incurred unabsorbed manufacturing costs during the time that Baxter’s manufacturing of the product was suspended. As a result of the second recall, we destroyed the Baxter-manufactured finished product inventory that we previously placed on indefinite hold, and recorded charges of $5.8 million in relation to this product. In March 2013, we and Baxter mutually agreed to terminate our supply agreement for OFIRMEV. Under the termination agreement, we were required to remove our manufacturing equipment from Baxter’s facility within 180 days and pay Baxter for any pre-approved costs or expenses related to such removal. As a result, we incurred impairment charges of $7.7 million and a loss on the sale of equipment of $0.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2012 in relation to the assets involved with the manufacture of OFIRMEV under the terminated development and supply agreement with Baxter. In addition, in July 2013, we voluntarily issued a letter to our customers requesting that they inspect their inventories of OFIRMEV to ensure that each vial includes a lot number and expiration date, following our receipt of a small number of customer reports of vials where such information was missing. We have received no reports of adverse events associated with this issue, and have notified FDA of our voluntary notification to our customers. Corrective actions have been implemented by our contract manufacturer to prevent a reoccurrence. Any future recalls of OFIRMEV could negatively affect customer perceptions and reduce revenue from OFIRMEV, and could also result in unexpected costs for replacement product, investigational costs and the write down of inventory and equipment. If OFIRMEV does not achieve sufficient market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sales will be limited. The commercial success of OFIRMEV will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community, our ability to ensure that the drug is included in hospital formularies, and coverage and reimbursement for OFIRMEV by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of OFIRMEV, or any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire, will depend on a number of factors, including: • limitations or warnings contained in the product’s FDA-approved labeling; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for our product candidates, which could reduce the marketing impact of any superiority claims that we could make following FDA approval; and 28 Table of Contents • potential advantages over, and availability of, alternative treatments, including, in the case of OFIRMEV, a number of products already used to treat pain or fever in the hospital setting. Our ability to effectively promote and sell OFIRMEV and any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire in the hospital marketplace will also depend on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a reasonable cost, achieve hospital formulary acceptance for the product and sell the product at a competitive price, as well as our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Since many hospitals are members of group purchasing organizations, which leverage the purchasing power of a group of entities to obtain discounts based on the collective buying power of the group, our ability to attract customers in the hospital marketplace will also depend on our ability to effectively promote OFIRMEV and any other product to hospitals that are members of group purchasing organizations. We will also need to demonstrate acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, as well as relative convenience and ease of administration. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with OFIRMEV and any other product or product candidates we may license or acquire. If OFIRMEV, or any other product or product candidate that is approved, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits and risks of OFIRMEV or any other product or product candidate may require significant resources and may never be successful. We rely on third parties to perform many essential services for OFIRMEV and any other products that we commercialize, including services related to warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management, cash collection and adverse event reporting, and if such third parties fail to perform as expected or to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our efforts to commercialize OFIRMEV or any other products may be significantly impacted and we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. We rely on third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of OFIRMEV, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. The services provided by these third parties include warehousing and inventory control, distribution, customer service, accounts receivable management and cash collection. As a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by one such service provider. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or if our products encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we have engaged third parties to perform various other services for us relating to adverse event reporting, safety database management, fulfillment of requests for medical information regarding OFIRMEV and related services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained or services performed by these third parties is insufficient, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for OFIRMEV or other products or product candidates we may license or acquire and may have to limit their commercialization. The use of OFIRMEV and any other products or product candidates we may license or acquire in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others using, administering or selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for OFIRMEV or other products or product candidates; • loss of revenues; 29 Table of Contents • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • significant distraction of our scientific and management personnel who may be involved in our efforts to defend against such claims; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to continue commercialization of OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates. Although we currently have commercial product liability coverage for OFIRMEV, which includes coverage for any clinical trials we may perform, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. Our commercial product liability insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We expect intense competition for OFIRMEV, and new products may emerge that provide different or better therapeutic alternatives for our targeted indications. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We will continue to face competition in our efforts to market and sell OFIRMEV from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others will not render OFIRMEV obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render OFIRMEV obsolete or noncompetitive. OFIRMEV will compete with well-established products with similar indications. Competing injectable products available for the treatment of pain include opioids such as morphine, fentanyl, meperidine and hydromorphone, each of which is available generically from several manufacturers, and several of which are available as proprietary products using novel delivery systems. Ketorolac, an injectable non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, or NSAID, is also available generically in the U.S. from several manufacturers, and Caldolor (ibuprofen for injection), an NSAID, is available for the treatment of pain and fever in adults and children 17 years of age and older. Competing products available for the treatment of fever in the hospital setting include acetaminophen administered orally and rectally, aspirin and NSAIDs, which may be administered orally, topically or intravenously. Additional products may be developed for the treatment of acute pain, including new injectable NSAIDs, novel opioids, new formulations of currently available opioids and NSAIDS, long-acting local anesthetics and new chemical entities as well as alternative delivery forms of various opioids and NSAIDs. Competitors may seek to develop alternative formulations of IV acetaminophen for our targeted indications that do not directly infringe our in-licensed patent rights. The commercial opportunity for OFIRMEV could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research development resources, including personnel and technology; 30 Table of Contents • clinical trial experience; • regulatory experience; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution, and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to commercialize OFIRMEV. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, useful and less costly than ours and may be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help commercialize OFIRMEV in Canada. We may require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our planned activities. We began generating revenue from the launch of OFIRMEV in January 2011, however, we expect our negative cash flow from operations to continue until we are able to generate significant revenues from sales of OFIRMEV. As a result, we may need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations as we implement our marketing strategies, maintain our sales force and commercial infrastructure and commercialize OFIRMEV; • purchase sufficient quantities of OFIRMEV from our contract manufacturer to meet customer demand or our minimum purchase obligations; • complete our ongoing efficacy, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of OFIRMEV in pediatric patients under two years of age, as required to comply with our post-commercialization commitment to the FDA; or • acquire or in-license additional products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit. Our funding requirements related to the commercialization of OFIRMEV may exceed our current projections as a result of many factors, including, but not limited to: • our sales of OFIRMEV may be lower than expected; • the costs associated with our efforts to sell, market and distribute OFIRMEV, including costs associated with maintaining our sales force and commercial infrastructure, may be greater than anticipated; • we may incur unexpected costs in order to ensure a sufficient supply of OFIRMEV from our contract manufacturer in order to meet customer demand, including any replacement of product or write down of inventory related to any product recall or other quality issue, or we may be required to pay fees based on minimum purchase obligations; and • we may be required to file or maintain lawsuits to defend our patent rights or regulatory exclusivities from challenges by companies seeking to market generic versions of IV acetaminophen, such as our ongoing intellectual property litigation, including any such costs we may be required to expend if our licensors are unwilling or unable to do so. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of revenue from sales of OFIRMEV, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash and investment balances. We have engaged in various financing activities in the past. In May 2011, for example, we established a universal shelf registration statement to permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell up to $150.0 million of equity or debt securities. In November 2011, we undertook a public offering of common stock using our universal shelf registration statement that raised net proceeds of approximately $77.3 million. In addition, we have refinanced 31 Table of Contents our $30.0 million secured credit facility with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation on various occasions, including most recently in December 2012. However, there can be no assurance in the future that we would be able to enter into similar financing arrangements or complete any securities offerings, including under our universal shelf registration statement, and to the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. We believe we have sufficient financial resources to fund our projected operating requirements, at a minimum, for the next twelve months. This estimate does not reflect any participation in strategic transactions. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources faster than we currently expect. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our sales, marketing and commercialization efforts for OFIRMEV, or we may not be able to adequately fund our intellectual property litigation, which could decrease sales of this product and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations. Public concern regarding the safety of drug products such as OFIRMEV could result in new requirements from regulatory agencies to include unfavorable information in our labeling, or require us to undertake other activities that may entail additional costs. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, the FDA, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and the establishment of risk management programs that may, for example, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, granted significant expanded authority to the FDA, much of which is aimed at improving the safety of drug products before and after approval. In particular, the law authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. For example, in January 2011, the FDA issued a press release and posted on its website a drug safety communication asking manufacturers of prescription drug products containing combinations of acetaminophen and opioid medications to limit the amount of acetaminophen to no more than 325 milligrams (mg) in each dosage unit (i.e. each tablet or caplet) by January 2014, and in January 2014, the FDA further recommended that healthcare professionals discontinue prescribing and dispensing prescription combination drug products that contain more than 325 mg of acetaminophen in each dosage unit in order to reduce the risk of severe liver injury from inadvertent acetaminophen overdose. In the January 2011 announcement, the FDA also requested manufacturers to update labels for such products to include a boxed warning highlighting the potential for severe acetaminophen-induced liver injury and a warning highlighting the potential for allergic reactions. The boxed warning required for affected products reaffirms previous statements made by the FDA that most cases of liver injury are associated with acetaminophen doses that exceed 4,000 mg per day from all routes of administration. Similarly, after discussions with the FDA, we added a boxed warning to the prescribing information for OFIRMEV in October 2013 regarding the potential for dosing errors with OFIRMEV and the risk of liver injury associated with the administration of acetaminophen (by all routes of administration) at doses that exceed the recommended maximum daily limits. A boxed warning is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug and is generally reserved for situations where prescribers should be aware of the potential for adverse drug reactions that can cause serious injury or death. Products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. We cannot predict whether the FDA will require additional warnings, or place any additional limitations on our ability to advertise and promote OFIRMEV, which could negatively impact our sales of OFIRMEV. The OFIRMEV prescribing information was also updated in accordance with a drug safety communication issued by the FDA in August 2013 requiring a warning that acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but serious skin reactions, such as 32 Table of Contents Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necroylsis and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, which can be fatal. The FDA indicated that it will require that this warning be added to the labels of all prescription drug products containing acetaminophen to address this risk, and will request or encourage manufacturers of over-the-counter acetaminophen drug products to do the same. Similar warnings are also required for other medications used to treat pain or fever, including NSAIDs. Also, the California “State’s Experts” acting under Proposition 65 have recommended a high priority for a review of acetaminophen by the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, which, depending on subsequent research and findings, could lead to the requirement for a warning statement to be added to the label for over-the-counter acetaminophen products that such products contain chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer. We believe that OFIRMEV, like other prescription products, would be exempt from this additional labeling requirement. However, any perception or concern that acetaminophen is unsafe could harm our ability to successfully commercialize and sell OFIRMEV, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, FDAAA also significantly expands the federal government’s clinical trial registry and results databank, which we expect will result in significantly increased government oversight of clinical trials. Under FDAAA, companies that violate these and other provisions of that law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny, particularly with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to require additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. Although OFIRMEV has received regulatory approval from the FDA, it remains subject to substantial, ongoing regulatory requirements. OFIRMEV remains subject to ongoing FDA requirements with respect to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. The FDA has the authority to regulate the claims we make in marketing OFIRMEV to ensure that such claims are true, not misleading, supported by scientific evidence and consistent with the approved label for the drug. In addition, concerns regarding a product’s safety, the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where a product is manufactured, may result in the imposition of additional restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. For example, after discussions with the FDA, we added a boxed warning to the prescribing information for OFIRMEV in October 2013 regarding the potential for dosing errors with OFIRMEV and the risk of liver injury associated with the administration of acetaminophen (by all routes of administration) at doses that exceed the recommended maximum daily limits. In addition, as a condition of the approval of OFIRMEV, we are required to complete an efficacy, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of OFIRMEV in pediatric patients under two years of age, and to submit the final results of this clinical trial to the FDA. Depending on the outcome of this study, we may be unable to expand the indications for OFIRMEV or we may be required to include specific warnings or limitations on dosing this product, which could negatively impact our sales of OFIRMEV. Enrollment in this study began in the third quarter of 2012. The FDA has agreed to a due date for completion of this study in August 2015. We have implemented a comprehensive compliance program and related infrastructure, but we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. If our operations in relation to OFIRMEV fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose consent decrees, which may include the imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; 33 Table of Contents • impose fines other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • exclude us from participating in U.S. federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition to FDA restrictions, numerous other federal, state and local laws and regulations apply to the promotion and sale of pharmaceutical products, such as the federal anti-kickback statute and false claims laws and regulations. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. There are also federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback statute and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Further, the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity can now be found guilty of fraud or false claims under PPACA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Possible sanctions for violation of these anti-kickback laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. In addition, device and drug manufacturers are now required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Also, as of August 1, 2013, manufacturers are required to begin data collection and will be required to report such data to CMS by March 31, 2014, and by the 90th day of every subsequent calendar year for the reporting period of the previous year. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the costs associated with implementing and maintain such systems, and the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. We cannot predict the impact on our business of any changes in these laws. Federal or state regulatory authorities may challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any state or federal regulatory review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming. Regulatory approval for any approved product is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which a product is deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe a drug for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote a product is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, and such off-label uses by healthcare professionals are common. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to suspend or withdraw an approved product from the market, require a recall or institute fines, or could result in disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and healthcare payor initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. In March 2010, the PPACA became law and made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the U.S. The PPACA includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies, some of which became 35 Table of Contents effective immediately and others of which will be taking effect over the next several years. The PPACA seeks to expand health care coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The PPACA also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit, an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S., and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics. The PPACA also promotes programs that increase the federal government’s comparative effectiveness research, which may be used to evaluate the selection of medical services by clinicians and others. In addition, PPACA implements payment system reforms such as a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projections of such spending exceed a specified growth rate. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, delayed for another two months the budget cuts mandated by these sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011. On March 1, 2013, the President signed an executive order implementing sequestration, and on April 1, 2013, the 2% Medicare payment reductions went into effect. The ATRA, among other things, also reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals that may be adopted from time to time in the future, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce costs of health care could result in decreased net revenues from our pharmaceutical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. In addition, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the pharmaceutical industry. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect in January 2015. Compliance with California and future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Managed care organizations are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some cases, imposing restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and costly, and we expect that it could take several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product and makes a decision with respect to coverage. For example, third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of OFIRMEV or any other product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products, or at all. 36 Table of Contents We may never be successful in our efforts to commercialize OFIRMEV in Canada. Our rights to OFIRMEV include Canada, as well as the United States. In June 2013, Health Canada issued a Notice of Compliance that granted marketing approval for OFIRMEV in Canada, and we initiated a pricing review for the product with the Canadian Patented Medicine Prices Review Board in October 2013. Following the completion of the pricing review process, we will assess the commercial feasibility of launching the product in Canada, either independently or in collaboration with a company with an existing Canadian commercial presence. Additionally, in order to market OFIRMEV in Canada, we must comply with numerous and varying Canadian regulatory requirements regarding non-clinical testing, manufacturing, clinical safety, efficacy and marketing. Our ability to successfully commercialize OFIRMEV in Canada will depend significantly on the price we are able to charge for the product and our ability to establish cost-effective marketing and sales capabilities and distribution channels for Canada. If the pricing for the product is not sufficient, we may elect to not market OFIRMEV in Canada, or if we do market the product, any profits we generate may be limited. If our hospital customers fail to receive adequate reimbursement from the government or third-party payors for OFIRMEV or any future products we may license or acquire, if any, or if hospitals choose to use therapies that are less expensive, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our anticipated sales of OFIRMEV or any future products will depend in part upon the reimbursement rates our customers receive for OFIRMEV. In particular, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for certain surgeries and other treatment therapies they perform. Because this amount may not be based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use therapies which are less expensive when compared to our products. In addition, some third-party payors, including government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers and commercial payors, are emphasizing the substitution of branded pharmaceuticals with less expensive generic equivalents. An increase in the sales of generic pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in revenues of branded pharmaceuticals. While there are no generic equivalents competing with OFIRMEV at this time, in the future we could face generic competition. OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if approved, will face competition from other therapies and drugs, as well as other routes of administration of acetaminophen, for these limited hospital financial resources. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to the satisfaction of hospitals, other target customers and their third-party payors. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective and accordingly, we may be unable to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In some foreign markets, such as Canada, the government controls the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing negotiated with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. In the U.S., we expect that there will be an increase in federal and state proposals to implement pricing controls for prescription drugs, and new legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our product candidates are approved for marketing or after our marketed products have been approved. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs. Legislative and regulatory actions under consideration in the U.S. include health care reform initiatives that could significantly alter the market for pharmaceuticals (such as private health insurance expansion, the creation of competing public health insurance plans, a variety of proposals that would reduce government expenditures for prescription drugs to help finance healthcare reform, or the eventual transition of the U.S. multiple payer system to a single payer system). Other actions under consideration include proposals for government intervention in pharmaceutical pricing, changes in government reimbursement, an accelerated approval process for “follow-on” biologics, legalization of commercial drug importation into the U.S., and involuntary approval of medicines for 37 Table of Contents over-the-counter use. Such legislation could result in the exclusion of OFIRMEV and any other products or product candidates we may license or acquire from hospital formularies, or lower the prices we would receive for our products or product candidates. Our revenues from the sale of OFIRMEV or any other approved products could be significantly reduced as a result of these cost containment measures and reforms, which would negatively impact our profitability. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to OFIRMEV from others, we could lose the ability to sell OFIRMEV. In March 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with BMS relating to OFIRMEV for the U.S. and Canada. Because we have in-licensed the rights to this product from a third party, if there is any dispute between us and our licensor regarding our rights under our license agreement, our ability to continue to sell this product may be adversely affected. Any uncured, material breach under our license agreement could result in our loss of exclusive rights to OFIRMEV and may lead to a complete termination of our related commercial efforts. If BMS breaches the underlying agreement under which we sublicense the rights to OFIRMEV, we could lose the ability to sell OFIRMEV. Our license for OFIRMEV is subject to the terms and conditions of a license from Pharmatop to BMS, under which BMS originally licensed the intellectual property rights covering OFIRMEV. If BMS materially breaches the terms or conditions of this underlying license from Pharmatop, and neither BMS nor we adequately cure that breach, or BMS and Pharmatop otherwise become involved in a dispute, the breach by BMS or disputes with Pharmatop could result in a loss of, or other material adverse impact on, our rights under our license agreement with BMS. While we would expect to exercise all reasonable rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by BMS, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed by Pharmatop, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the license from Pharmatop to BMS could result in our loss of exclusive rights to OFIRMEV and may lead to a complete termination of our commercial efforts for OFIRMEV. We may experience difficulties in managing the growth of our organization. As of February 21, 2014, we had approximately 210 employees. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support our commercially-focused organization, and we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified personnel in the future due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses. The failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • effectively train and manage our employees, and establish appropriate systems, policies and infrastructure to support our organization; • ensure that our consultants and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results, and meet expected deadlines; • continue to carry out our own contractual obligations to our licensors and other third parties; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our commercialization goals. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and commercial, scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on the expertise of our senior management, particularly Theodore R. Schroeder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, William R. LaRue, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, and Scott A. Byrd, our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer. If we lose one or more of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Schroeder, Mr. LaRue and Mr. Byrd, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. Any attempt to develop new products in the future could be limited unless we were able to hire a suitable replacement. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and our operations may be set back. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturer must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturer’s activities and, to a lesser extent, our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of OFIRMEV and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturer are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering OFIRMEV are limited to a specific IV formulation of acetaminophen. As a result, our market opportunity for this product may be limited by the lack of patent protection for the active ingredient itself and other formulations of IV acetaminophen may be developed by competitors. The active ingredient in OFIRMEV is acetaminophen. Patent protection is not available for the acetaminophen molecule itself in the territories licensed to us, which include the U.S. and Canada. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredient as OFIRMEV so long as the competitors do not infringe any process or formulation patents that we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, Pharmatop. We are the exclusive licensee of two U.S. patents and two Canadian patents owned by Pharmatop, under BMS’s license to these patents from Pharmatop. U.S. Patent No. 6,028,222, or the ‘222 patent (Canadian patent number 2,233,924), covers the formulation of OFIRMEV, and this patent expires in August 2017. U.S. Patent No. 6,992,218, or the ‘218 patent (Canadian patent number 2,415,403), covers the process used to manufacture OFIRMEV, and this patent expires in June 2021. We plan to complete a pediatric clinical trial of OFIRMEV within the period agreed on with the FDA, which is August 2015, and, upon timely completion and the acceptance by the FDA of the data from this study, we expect that OFIRMEV will be eligible for an additional six months of marketing exclusivity in the U.S. We are also aware of several U.S. and Canadian patents and patent applications directed to various potential injectable formulations of acetaminophen as well as methods of making and using these potential formulations. For example, Injectapap, a liquid formulation of acetaminophen for intramuscular injection, was approved by the FDA for the reduction of fever in adults in March 1986, although it was subsequently withdrawn from the market by McNeil Pharmaceutical in July 1986. The number of patents and patent applications directed to products in the same field as OFIRMEV indicates that competitors have sought to develop and may seek to market competing formulations that may not be covered by our licensed patents and patent applications. The commercial opportunity for OFIRMEV could be significantly harmed if competitors are able to develop alternative formulations of acetaminophen outside the scope of our in-licensed patents. We are also aware of a number of third-party patents in the U.S. that claim methods of making acetaminophen. If a supplier of the API for OFIRMEV is found to infringe any of these method patents covering acetaminophen, our supply of the API could be delayed and we may be required to locate an alternative supplier. Five third-parties have challenged, and additional third parties may challenge, the patents covering OFIRMEV, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims. If a third party files an NDA or ANDA for a generic drug product containing acetaminophen and relies in whole or in part on studies conducted by or for us, the third party will be required to certify to the FDA that, in the opinion of that third party, the patent listed in the Orange Book for a branded product is invalid, unenforceable, or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the third party’s generic drug product. A third party certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for OFIRMEV, or that such patents are invalid, is called a Paragraph IV patent certification. If the third party submits a Paragraph IV patent certification to the FDA, a notice of the Paragraph IV patent certification must also be sent to us once the third-party’s NDA or ANDA is accepted for filing by the FDA. A lawsuit may then be initiated to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of notice of a Paragraph IV patent certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the NDA or ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the patents, the entry of a settlement order stating that the patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the NDA or ANDA applicant, or such shorter or longer period as the court may order. If a patent infringement lawsuit is not initiated within the required 45-day period, the third-party’s NDA or ANDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. For example, in August 2011, we and Pharmatop filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Perrigo and Exela. The lawsuit followed the notices that we received in July 2011 from each 40 Table of Contents of Perrigo and Exela concerning their filings of ANDAs containing a “Paragraph IV” patent certification with the FDA for a generic version of OFIRMEV. In the lawsuit, we alleged that Perrigo and Exela each infringed the ‘222 patent and the ‘218 patent by filing their respective ANDAs seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of OFIRMEV prior to the expiration of these patents. The ‘222 and the ‘218 patents are listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, commonly known as the Orange Book. The patent infringement lawsuit was filed within 45 days of receipt of the pertinent notice letters, thereby triggering a stay of FDA approval of the Perrigo ANDA and the Exela ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the ‘222 and ‘218 patents, the entry of a settlement order or consent decree stating that the ‘222 and ‘218 patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the case concerning infringement or validity that is favorable to Perrigo or Exela, or such shorter or longer period as the Court may order. Each of Perrigo and Exela filed an answer in the case that asserted, among other things, non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents, as well as certain counterclaims. We settled with Perrigo and the case against Perrigo was dismissed on November 30, 2012. In connection with the settlement and license agreements entered into in November 2012, Perrigo was granted the exclusive right of first refusal to negotiate an agreement with us to market an authorized generic version of OFIRMEV in the U.S. in the event that we elect to launch an authorized generic version of the product. The license agreement also provides that, if we enter into an agreement for Perrigo to market an authorized generic version of OFIRMEV during the license period, Perrigo would purchase the product exclusively from us. We would receive product costs plus an administrative fee, as well as a royalty payment based on the net profits achieved by Perrigo from the sale of the authorized generic product. Additionally, we granted Perrigo the non-exclusive right to market a generic IV acetaminophen product in the U.S. under Perrigo’s ANDA after December 6, 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances. The FTC or the DOJ could seek to challenge our settlement with Perrigo, or a competitor, customer or other third-party could initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging our settlement with Perrigo. Any such challenge could be both expensive and time consuming and may render the settlement agreement unenforceable. A bench trial for the lawsuit with Exela was held in May 2013, with one additional trial date held in early July 2013. In November 2013, the court ruled in favor of us and found that Exela’s ANDA for a generic version of OFIRMEV infringed the ‘222 and ‘218 patents. An appeal of the decision in favor of us was filed by Exela on December 20, 2013. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this appeal, and an adverse outcome could result in the launch of one or more generic versions of OFIRMEV before the expiration of the last of the listed patents in June 6, 2021 (or December 6, 2021 if pediatric exclusivity is granted), which could adversely affect our ability to successfully maximize the value of OFIRMEV, and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. In addition, in January 2013, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, or Fresenius, following receipt of a December 2012 notice from Fresenius concerning its submission of an NDA containing a Paragraph IV patent certification with the FDA for a generic version of OFIRMEV. In February 2013, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Sandoz, Inc., or Sandoz, following receipt of a December 2012 notice from Sandoz concerning its submission of an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV patent certification with the FDA for a generic version of OFIRMEV. In October 2013, we filed a motion to amend our complaint against Sandoz to join Sandoz AG, Neogen International N.V., APC Pharmaceuticals, LLC, and DIACO S.p.A. (together with Sandoz, the Sandoz Parties) to the lawsuit against Sandoz due to the involvement of each of these companies with the preparation of the Sandoz ANDA and related matters. In the lawsuits against Fresenius and the Sandoz Parties, which were coordinated for purposes of discovery and other pretrial proceedings in the Southern District of California, we alleged that Fresenius and the Sandoz Parties each infringed the ‘222 patent and the ‘218 patent by filing an NDA, in the case of Fresenius, or an ANDA, in the case of the Sandoz Parties, seeking approval from the FDA to market a generic version of OFIRMEV prior to the expiration of these patents. Both Fresenius and the Sandoz Parties filed answers in the Southern District of California asserting, among other things, non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents, as well as certain counterclaims. Both the Fresenius and 41 Table of Contents Sandoz lawsuits were filed within 45 days of receipt of the respective notice letters, thereby triggering a stay of FDA approval of the Fresenius NDA and the Sandoz ANDA until the earlier of the expiration of a 30-month period, the expiration of the ‘222 and ‘218 patents, the entry of a settlement order or consent decree stating that the ‘222 and ‘218 patents are invalid or not infringed, a decision in the case concerning infringement or validity that is favorable to Fresenius and/or the Sandoz Parties, or such shorter or longer period as the court may order. In January 2014, we entered into a settlement agreement and a binding term sheet for a license agreement with the Sandoz Parties. The settlement agreement includes a stipulation by the parties requesting dismissal with prejudice of the lawsuit filed by us relating to the ANDA filed by Sandoz. Under the terms of the license, we granted to the holder of the Sandoz ANDA and its affiliates the non-exclusive right to market a generic intravenous acetaminophen product in the United States under the Sandoz ANDA beginning December 6, 2020, or earlier under certain circumstances. We also agreed that in the event that we determine to launch an authorized generic version of OFIRMEV (i.e., a generic version marketed under our NDA) in the U.S. and Perrigo elects not to exercise its right of first refusal to become the distributor of the authorized generic version of the product, we will grant a similar right of first refusal to the holder of the Sandoz ANDA on substantially the same terms as those previously granted to Perrigo. In addition, the license agreement will contain provisions regarding indemnification, confidentiality and other customary provisions for agreements of these kinds. The settlement documents are subject to submission to the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice. Litigation remains ongoing against Fresenius, and the bench trial for such lawsuit is tentatively scheduled to commence on July 14, 2014. In December 2013, we received a notice from Wockhardt USA LLC, or Wockhardt, stating that Wockhardt filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV patent certification with the FDA for a generic version OFIRMEV. This notice stated that the Paragraph IV patent certification was made with respect to both the ‘222 patent and the ‘218 patent. We filed suit against Wockhardt Limited, Wockhardt BIO AG and Wockhardt on January 22, 2014 in the U.S. District Court of Delaware, and on January 23, 2014, in the U.S. District Court of New Jersey. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights are often very complex in nature, may be very expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business, and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with our products. Any adverse outcome of such litigation could result in one or more generic versions of OFIRMEV being launched without our consent before the expiration of the patents we have in-licensed from BMS and its licensor, Pharmatop, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of OFIRMEV and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to OFIRMEV to prevent the marketing of infringing generic products without our consent prior to the expiration of our patents. However, given the unpredictability inherent in litigation, we cannot predict or guarantee the outcome of these matters or any other litigation. Regardless of how these matters are ultimately resolved, these matters may be costly, time-consuming and distracting to our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately secure such rights would materially affect our business. Our commercial success depends on maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for OFIRMEV, as well as for any other products or product candidates that we may license or acquire, and successfully defending these patents and trade secrets against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. For example, in April 2012, Exela filed suit against David J. Kappos and the USPTO in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for declaratory judgment seeking a reversal of the USPTO’s decision not to act on a petition by Exela to vacate the USPTO’s April 2003 order reviving the international 42 Table of Contents application for the ‘218 patent. The lawsuit followed the USPTO’s rejection of Exela’s petition to the USPTO filed in November 2011, which sought to vacate the April 23, 2003 order granting Pharmatop’s petition to revive the ‘218 patent. The USPTO determined that Exela lacked standing to seek such relief. Exela also seeks declaratory judgment that the USPTO’s rules and regulations that allow for revival of abandoned, international patent applications under the “unintentional” standard are invalid, and similar relief in connection with one or more counterclaims it has filed in the Delaware litigation. Our motion to intervene in this lawsuit was granted in October 2012. In December 2012, the district court dismissed the case with prejudice as barred by the applicable statute of limitations. In February 2013, Exela appealed the district court’s decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Oral argument was held on February 3, 2014. A decision by the Court of Appeals in favor of Exela could result in the invalidation of the ‘218 patent. Additionally, in September 2012, an unidentified third party (subsequently identified as Exela) filed with the USPTO a Request for Ex Parte Reexamination of the ‘222 patent. In December 2012, we received notice that the USPTO had granted the Request for Reexamination. The reexamination process is provided for by law and requires the USPTO to consider the scope and validity of the patent based on substantial new questions of patentability raised by a third party or the USPTO. In February 2013, we and Pharmatop filed with the USPTO a patent owner’s statement commenting on the reexamination request, and in April 2013, Exela filed comments in response to the patent owner’s statement. In a non-final, initial office action issued by the USPTO on August 13, 2013, the USPTO rejected certain claims of the ‘222 patent. A response to the first office action was filed in November 2013. In addition, in January 2014, an unidentified third party filed with the USPTO a Request for Ex Parte Reexamination of the ‘218 patent. All of the claims of the ‘222 and ‘218 patents remain valid and in force during the reexamination proceedings. Because we and Pharmatop believe that the scope and validity of the patent claims in these patents are appropriate and that the USPTO’s prior issuances of the patents were correct, we, in conjunction with Pharmatop, will vigorously defend these patents. We cannot predict whether we and Pharmatop ultimately will succeed in maintaining the scope and validity of the claims of these patents during reexamination. If any of the patent claims in these patents ultimately are narrowed during prosecution before the USPTO, the extent of the patent coverage afforded to OFIRMEV could be impaired, which could potentially harm our business and operating results. On November 4, 2013, we submitted a citizen petition to the FDA requesting that the FDA refrain from approving any new acetaminophen product for parenteral use that does not have an identical inactive ingredient profile as OFIRMEV without nonclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating the product is as safe and effective as OFIRMEV. The FDA is required by statute to issue a response to our citizen petition within 150 days, or no later than April 3, 2014; however, we cannot predict when or if the FDA will issue a final response to, or otherwise take any other action with respect to, our petition. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 43 Table of Contents • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our products, product candidates or technologies; • it is possible that none of the pending patent applications licensed to us will result in issued patents; • the issued patents covering our products or product candidates may not provide a basis for commercially viable active products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for at least 18 months after their earliest effective filing date. Consequently, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to invent or the first to file patent applications on our products or product candidates. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our products or product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a material adverse effect on our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect our drug market. In addition, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our products or product candidates. Even if patents are issued, we cannot guarantee that the claims of those patents will be valid and enforceable or provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our licensors, employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our licensors or we fail to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for OFIRMEV or any other product or product candidate we may license or acquire, third parties could use our proprietary information, which could impair our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. We depend on our licensors for the maintenance and enforcement of our intellectual property and have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf, or whether any financial difficulties experienced by our licensors could result in their unwillingness or inability to secure, maintain and enforce patents protecting our intellectual property. We depend on our licensor, BMS, and its licensor, Pharmatop, to protect the proprietary rights covering OFIRMEV and we have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that BMS or Pharmatop devote on our behalf, or the priority they place on maintaining and enforcing our patent rights, and prosecuting patent applications to our advantage. Pharmatop is under a contractual obligation to BMS to maintain the issued OFIRMEV patents in the U.S. and Canada. BMS has the opportunity to consult, review and comment on any patent office communications. 44 Table of Contents For a third-party challenge to the validity or enforceability of the OFIRMEV patents, we will have some ability to participate in either Pharmatop’s or BMS’ defense thereof. In the event that neither Pharmatop nor BMS elects to defend the third-party challenge, we may have the opportunity to defend it. BMS has the first right to prosecute a third-party infringement of the OFIRMEV patents relating to OFIRMEV, and Pharmatop has the second right. We may not have the ability to cooperate with BMS or Pharmatop in any such third-party infringement suits. In certain instances, we may be allowed to pursue a third-party infringement claim ourselves. It is possible that Pharmatop or BMS could take some action or fail to take some action that could harm the patents related to OFIRMEV. For example, if Pharmatop decides it no longer wants to maintain the OFIRMEV patents or if Pharmatop or BMS decide not to defend the patents against third party challenges, we risk losing the benefit of all or some of those patent rights. Moreover, Pharmatop or BMS may experience serious difficulties related to their respective businesses or financial stability, and may be unwilling or unable to continue to expend the financial resources required to maintain and prosecute these patents and patent applications, or to defend the patents against third party challenges. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for OFIRMEV, both in the U.S. and Canada. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend on our licensors to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights. We may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and our licensors could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the U.S. or other countries. We or our licensors may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights. Our licensors are not obligated to defend or assist in our defense against third-party claims of infringement. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on defense of such third-party claims of infringement. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we or our licensors may not be successful in defending claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation would harm our business. Our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell OFIRMEV or any other products or product candidates that we may license or acquire depends upon our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the general fields of pain treatment and cover the use of numerous compounds and formulations in our targeted markets. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any patent or other litigation involving proprietary rights, we and our licensors may not be successful in defending intellectual property claims by third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation, defending the litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that OFIRMEV may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that OFIRMEV may inadvertently infringe. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we infringe on their products or technology, we could face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be expensive and time consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court decides that our product infringes on a competitor’s patent; 45 Table of Contents • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it would not be required to do; • if a license is available from a patent holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • redesigning our processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We began generating revenues from the commercialization of OFIRMEV in January 2011. Prior to that time, we focused primarily on in-licensing and developing OFIRMEV and our former product candidate, omiganan pentahydrochloride, with the goal of supporting regulatory approval for these product candidates. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in May 2004, including net losses of $24.3 million, $81.0 million, and $93.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $472.0 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and our working capital. For example, while our development expenses have decreased since 2010 due to the completion of our clinical development program for OFIRMEV, our sales, marketing, manufacturing and legal expenses have increased significantly since that time in connection with the commercialization OFIRMEV. In addition, we are required to pay a royalty on net sales of OFIRMEV, which includes minimum obligations, and we may be required to make future milestone payments upon the achievement of certain net sales levels of OFIRMEV. We also have minimum purchase obligations under our supply agreement with our contract manufacturer for OFIRMEV. As a result, we expect to continue to incur operating losses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues to operate profitably. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We currently have a limited history of revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue. We began to market OFIRMEV in January 2011, and we had not generated any revenue prior to that time. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • effectively commercialize OFIRMEV; • manufacture or procure commercial quantities of OFIRMEV at acceptable cost levels; • successfully manage our commercial organization and the supporting infrastructure required to successfully market and sell OFIRMEV; and • obtain regulatory approval for any other product or product candidates that we may license or acquire. 46 Table of Contents We have incurred and anticipate continuing to incur significant costs associated with our efforts to commercialize, market and sell OFIRMEV, and we are not generating sufficient revenues to operate profitably. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding. Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in May 2004 and have only been conducting operations with respect to OFIRMEV since March 2006. Prior to 2011, our operations were limited to organizing and staffing our company, in-licensing and conducting product development activities, including clinical trials and manufacturing development activities, and preparing to commercialize OFIRMEV. In January 2011, we launched OFIRMEV and began generating revenues. The revenues we have generated from OFIRMEV have changed significantly since launch, and we anticipate that they will continue to change. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of marketing OFIRMEV or other pharmaceutical products. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our ability to successfully market and sell OFIRMEV; • the level of underlying hospital demand for OFIRMEV and wholesalers’ buying patterns; • our capacity to manage our commercial infrastructure and related expenses, including our sales and marketing personnel, and costs incurred under our agreements with third parties for warehousing, distribution, cash collection and related commercial activities; • our execution of acquisition, in-licensing, co-promotion or similar agreements for new products and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • costs associated with our ongoing intellectual property infringement lawsuits related to OFIRMEV, and any product liability or other litigation in which we may become involved; • our ability to successfully defend the patents for OFIRMEV and maintain our market exclusivity; • our ability to successfully procure sufficient quantities of OFIRMEV and maintain adequate supply levels; • regulatory developments affecting OFIRMEV or the products or product candidates of our competitors; • costs associated with any product recalls or investigations into quality concerns; and • variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs for any future product candidates and any further development costs associated with OFIRMEV, including our ongoing pediatric clinical trial. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Raising additional funds by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders and raising funds through lending and licensing arrangements may restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. For example, we undertook a public offering of our common stock in November 2010 47 Table of Contents through which we issued a total of 12.5 million shares of common stock and raised net proceeds of $93.6 million, and in November 2011 we issued a total of 21.8 million shares of common stock in a public offering and raised net proceeds of $77.3 million. If we raise additional funds through alternative means such as licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. For example, we have refinanced our $30.0 million secured credit facility with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation on various occasions, including most recently in December 2012. This secured credit facility contains a variety of affirmative and negative covenants, including minimum quarterly product revenue requirements, required financial reporting, limitations on the disposition of assets other than in the ordinary course of business, limitations on the incurrence of additional debt and other requirements. To secure our performance of our obligations under our current loan and security agreement, we pledged substantially all of our assets other than intellectual property assets, to the lenders. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the current loan and security agreement could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt and potential foreclosure on the assets pledged to secure the debt. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to periodically perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our independent auditors are required to perform a similar evaluation and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal controls over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” 48 Table of Contents and proxy access, and the SEC has since issued final rules implementing “say on pay” measures. Our efforts to comply with corporate governance and related requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits may be limited. Our net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2013, we had generated federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $392.1 million and $387.6 million, respectively. We also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $4.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Our net operating loss carryforwards will begin expiring in 2024 for federal purposes and 2014 for state purposes if we have not used them prior to that time. Our federal tax credits will begin expiring in 2025 unless previously used and our state tax credits carryforward indefinitely. Additionally, under Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383, the annual use of our net operating loss carryforwards and research tax credits will be limited in the event a cumulative change in our ownership occurs within a three-year period. We have completed an analysis through December 31, 2012, and determined that we experienced an ownership change in March 2006. However, this ownership change did not result in the forfeiture of any net operating loss carryforwards or research tax credits. Therefore, we have reinstated the (1) deferred tax assets for net operating losses of approximately $149.1 million and (2) research and development credits of approximately $6.8 million generated through 2012 to our deferred tax asset schedule. Further, we have recorded a corresponding increase to our valuation allowance. The analysis did not have any impact on our unrecognized tax benefits. There is risk that additional changes in ownership have occurred since the completion of our analysis, which was through December 31, 2012. If a change in ownership were to have occurred, additional net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could be eliminated or restricted. If eliminated, the related asset would be removed from the deferred tax asset schedule with a corresponding reduction in the valuation allowance. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the U.S. mortgage market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and shifting expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, fluctuating business and consumer confidence and continued unemployment concerns, have precipitated significant economic uncertainty. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market changes may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of continuing market turbulence, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds, if necessary, and our stock price may decline. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Our stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Continued volatility in the overall capital markets could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. Further, high stock price volatility could result in higher stock-based compensation expense. 49 Table of Contents The trading prices for our common stock during the 52 weeks ending December 31, 2013 ranged from a high of $10.09 to a low of $4.45. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • announcements concerning our operating results; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors or the economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • the failure of OFIRMEV to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • developments pertaining to the intellectual property lawsuits relating to OFIRMEV, including any future lawsuits, and any other challenges to our patents and other intellectual property rights; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • product recalls, quality concerns or manufacturing difficulties; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products or potential products, including concerns about the boxed warning in the prescribing information for OFIRMEV; • actual fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and concerns by investors that such fluctuations may occur in the future; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • health care reform legislation, including measures directed at controlling the pricing of pharmaceutical products and the amount of reimbursement received by our customers; • developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they may now be able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. For example, we undertook public offerings of our common stock through which we issued totals of 21.8 million shares of common stock in November 2011 and 12.5 million shares of common stock in November 2010, and in May 2009, we completed the registration of approximately 18.1 million shares of our common stock in connection with a financing transaction completed in February 2009. As a result, all of the shares currently 50 Table of Contents outstanding may generally be freely sold in the public market, subject to volume and other limitations applicable to our affiliates. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. Furthermore, any future equity financing we may undertake, or the expectation of such financing, could reduce the market price of our common stock over dilution concerns. In addition, certain of our officers have established, and other of our directors and executive officers may in the future establish, programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates may exercise control over stockholder voting matters in a manner that may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates together controlled approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will collectively be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets, and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president or by a majority of the total number of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66-2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Our amended and restated bylaws also provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, 51 Table of Contents tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our current loan and security agreement with Oxford Finance LLC, Silicon Valley Bank and General Electric Capital Corporation restricts our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 