ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our business model is characterized primarily by recurring revenue based on commissions we receive from insurance carriers whose policies are purchased by our members. Although our services are complete upon the approval of a member’s application, we receive commissions and record related revenue, typically on a monthly basis, until the health insurance policy is cancelled or we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy. A significant component of our marketing and advertising expenses consists of payments owed to our marketing partners in connection with referrals of potential members in the period during which an application is submitted by the potential member. As a result of this timing difference between expense and associated revenue recognition, our operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected in periods where we experience a significant increase in new applicants. In addition, if we incur other unanticipated or one-time expenses in a particular quarter or if we lose a significant amount of our member base for any reason, we would likely be unable to offset these expenses by increasing sales within that quarter or to replace lost revenue in the quarter 18 Table of Contents with revenue from new members. As a result, our quarterly results may suffer due to unanticipated expenses, one-time charges or significant member turnover. We have a history of losses and our rate of growth may decline. We have a history of net losses and have only achieved net profitability on an annual basis in the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $63.7 million. We may in the future make significant expenditures related to the development of our business, including expenditures relating to marketing, website and technology development and hiring of additional personnel. In addition, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. Maintaining profitability will require us to generate and sustain substantially increased revenue. Although we have experienced revenue growth in prior periods, this growth may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract new individuals, families and small businesses to purchase health insurance through our ecommerce platform. To the extent that the rate of growth of our net new members slows, our revenue growth is also likely to slow. In addition, the commission rates that we receive for individuals and families are typically higher in the first twelve months of a policy. As a result, to the extent that the rate of growth of new members slows or our commission rates decrease for other reasons, our revenue could decline. Commission rates we receive from health insurance carriers also affect our revenue growth. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance policies chosen by our members, the carriers offering those policies, the location of members and the laws and regulations in that jurisdiction and the amount of time policies have been active. In addition, the growth in our overall commission rate per member could decrease as a result of either reductions in contractual commission rates or unfavorable changes in health insurance carrier override commission programs. To the extent these factors cause our commission rate per member to decline, our rate of growth may decline. If the purchase of health insurance over the Internet does not achieve and maintain widespread consumer and health insurance carrier acceptance, or if consumers or carriers opt for more traditional channels for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our business will be harmed. Our success will depend in large part upon widespread consumer and health insurance carrier acceptance of the Internet as a marketplace for the purchase and sale of health insurance. Consumers and health insurance carriers may choose to depend more on traditional sources, such as individual agents, or alternative sources may develop. Our future growth, if any, will depend in part upon: • the growth of the Internet as a commerce medium generally, and as a market for consumer financial products and services specifically; • consumers’ willingness to conduct their own health insurance research; • our ability to make the process of purchasing health insurance online an attractive alternative to traditional means of purchasing health insurance; • our ability to successfully and cost-effectively market our services as superior to traditional sources for health insurance to a sufficiently large number of consumers; and • health insurance carriers’ willingness to use us and the Internet as a distribution channel for health insurance products. If consumers and health insurance carriers do not widely adopt the Internet as a source for the purchase and sale of health insurance, or if they determine that other sources for health insurance and health insurance applications are superior, our business will not grow and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 19 Table of Contents Our business may not grow if consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance. Numerous health insurance products are available to consumers in any given market. Most of these products vary by price, benefits and other policy features. Health insurance terminology and provisions are often confusing and difficult to understand. As a result, researching, selecting and purchasing health insurance can be a complex process. We believe that this complexity has contributed to a perception held by many consumers that individual health insurance is prohibitively expensive and difficult to obtain. We attempt to make the health insurance research and application process on our website understandable and user-friendly. We also attempt to use our website to educate consumers about the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. If consumers are not informed about the availability and accessibility of affordable health insurance, our business may not grow and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are unable to retain our members, our business and operating results would be harmed. We receive revenue from commissions health insurance carriers pay to us for health insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform. When one of these policies is cancelled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission revenue. Individuals, families and small businesses may choose to discontinue their health insurance policies for a variety of reasons. For example, individuals and families may replace a health insurance policy purchased through us with a health insurance plan provided by a new or existing employer. In addition, our members may choose to transfer their policies to a different agent if, for example, they are not satisfied with our customer service or the health insurance products that we offer. Health insurance carriers may also terminate health insurance plans offered on our ecommerce platform. If we are not successful in transferring members covered under a terminated plan to another policy that we offer, we will lose these members. Our cost in acquiring a new member is substantially greater than the cost involved in maintaining our relationship with an existing member. If we are not able to successfully retain existing members and limit member turnover to levels we have experienced in the past, our revenue and operating margins will be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, become dependent upon a limited number of insurance carriers or fail to develop new carrier relationships. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their health insurance products for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, as a result of a reluctance to distribute their products over the Internet or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. For example, one carrier terminated its relationship with us with respect to the policies it offers in a particular state because the carrier decided to sell those policies through agents that exclusively offered that particular carrier’s products. In the future, an increasing number of carriers may decide to rely on their own internal distribution channels, including traditional in-house agents and carrier websites, to sell their own products and, in turn, could limit or prohibit us from selling their products on our ecommerce platform. Carriers may also choose not to distribute insurance products in the individual, family and small business markets. We may decide to terminate our relationship with a carrier for a number of reasons, including as a result of a reduction in a carrier’s financial ratings, a carrier determining to pay lower commissions or a carrier demanding a sales process that we believe impairs the value of our service. The termination of our relationship with a carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance products we offer, which could harm our business. We also would lose a source of commissions for future sales, and, in a limited number of cases, future commissions for past sales. Our business could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new carrier relationships and are unable to offer consumers a wide variety of health insurance products. The health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation over the past several years, resulting in a decrease in the number of health insurance carriers. In the future, we 20 Table of Contents may be forced to offer insurance policies from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. Carriers owned by WellPoint and UnitedHealthcare represented 26% and 22% of our total revenue in 2005, respectively, and 22% and 20% of our total revenue in 2006, respectively. Revenue we derived from our agreement with Golden Rule Insurance Company, which is owned by UnitedHealthcare, represented 17% and 16% of our total revenue in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Revenue we derived from our agreements with Blue Cross of California and Unicare, which are owned by WellPoint, represented 15% and 12% of our total revenue in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our agreements with Golden Rule Insurance Company and with Blue Cross of California and Unicare are terminable on 90 days written notice by either party for any reason and may be terminated on shorter notice under certain circumstances, such as in the case of a breach of the agreement. Should our dependence on fewer carrier relationships increase (whether as a result of the termination of carrier relationships, further carrier consolidation or otherwise), we may become more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with our carriers, particularly in states where we offer health insurance from a relatively smaller number of carriers or where a small number of carriers dominates the market, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Changes in the quality and affordability of the health insurance products that carriers offer on our ecommerce platform could harm our business and operating results. The demand for health insurance marketed through our ecommerce platform is impacted by, among other things, the variety, quality and price of the health insurance products offered on our ecommerce platform. If health insurance carriers do not continue to provide us with a variety of high-quality, affordable health insurance products in the individual, family and small business markets, or if their offerings are limited as a result of consolidation in the health insurance industry or otherwise, our sales may decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Health insurance carriers could determine to reduce the commissions paid to us or to change their underwriting practices in ways that reduce the number of insurance policies sold through our ecommerce platform, which could harm our business and operating results. Our commission rates, and the commission override payments we receive from health insurance carriers for achieving sales volume thresholds or other objectives, are either set by each carrier or negotiated between us and each carrier. Carriers have altered, and may in the future alter, the contractual relationships we have with them, either by renegotiation or unilateral action. If these contractual changes result in reduced commissions, our business may suffer and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, carriers periodically change the criteria they use for determining whether they are willing to insure individuals. In the past, these changes have resulted in a decrease in the number of insurance policies we would have otherwise sold. Future changes in carrier underwriting criteria could negatively impact sales of insurance policies on our ecommerce platform and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing partners and carriers. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon our marketing and public relations efforts and our ability to continue to offer high-quality products and services in an understandable and objective manner. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose marketing partners and members, which could, in turn, cause health insurance carriers to terminate their relationships with us, all of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents If we are not successful in converting visitors to our website into members, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our growth depends in part upon growth in our membership. The rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and seeking to purchase health insurance into members is a significant factor in the growth of our membership. A number of factors could influence this conversion rate for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the quality of, and changes to, the consumer experience on our ecommerce platform and with our customer care center; • the variety and affordability of the health insurance products that we offer; • system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform; • changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels; • the number, type and identity of the health insurance carriers offering the health insurance products for which consumers have expressed interest, and the degree to which our technology is integrated with those carriers; and • the health insurance carrier underwriting guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers and the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application. In the event the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platform into members declines, our membership growth rate will decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a decline in the percentage of consumers visiting our ecommerce platform who submit health insurance applications could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members as a result of increased costs on a per member basis. Such an increase could adversely impact our operating margins and harm our business and operating results. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and operating results. Our revenue depends upon the number of health insurance applications consumers submit utilizing our ecommerce platform that are approved by health insurance carriers. As a result, the performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platform and underlying network infrastructure are critical to our financial results, our brand and our relationship with members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance our ecommerce platform and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our website traffic or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Although we have experienced only minor system failures and interruptions to date, we could experience significant failures and interruptions in the future, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate our ecommerce platform. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers’ networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our website traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in, or decreases the responsiveness of, our service would impair our revenue-generating capabilities and harm our business and operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, consumers may access our customer care center for assistance in connection with submitting health insurance applications through our ecommerce platform. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers, to operate our customer care center. Any failure of the systems that we rely upon in the operation of our customer care center could negatively impact sales of insurance policies through our ecommerce platform and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents In February 2007, we moved our data center operations to San Jose, California from Redwood City, California and completed certain changes to our data center, including moving from a Sun/Solaris to a Linux operating system. We may experience technical difficulties in connection with these changes. If we experience a system failure, loss of data or disruption for any reason, including as a result of changes in our data center location or infrastructure, the performance of our website would be harmed and our service could shut down. In addition, any loss in data could result in loss of customers and subject us to potential liability. Our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, earthquakes, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. Our operations are vulnerable to earthquakes in the San Francisco Bay Area. Although we maintain insurance to cover a variety of risks, the scope and amount of our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions to our online operations. Any system failure or disruption and any resulting losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies may materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we regularly back-up our system and store the system back-ups in a secure third-party offsite location with restricted access near the San Francisco Bay area, we do not have full second-site redundancy. If we were forced to rely on our system back-ups, we would experience significant delays in restoring the functionality of our website and could experience loss of data, which would harm our business and our operating results. We intend to create a fully redundant disaster recovery system for our data center and website. We may face significant technical challenges in successfully replicating our system and database. Any steps that we take to increase the redundancy and reliability of our systems may be expensive and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of system failures or website downtime. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to advertise on search engines on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, MSN and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both algorithmic listings and paid advertisements to attract consumers to our website. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumer’s Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. Our website may also become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we decide to make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our website likely would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which would harm our operating results. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which also would harm our operating results. We also purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract users to our website. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our name and website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. In some circumstances, such as with Google AdWords, the prominence of the placement of our name and website is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. We bid against our competitors and 23 Table of Contents others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many insurance carriers, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. If there is increased competition for the display of paid advertisements in response to search terms related to our business, our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on marketing partners for the sale of health insurance on our ecommerce platform and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners. In addition to marketing through Internet search engines, we frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with other online and offline businesses that promote us to their customers. These marketing partners include financial and online service companies, affiliate programs and online advertisers and content providers. We typically compensate our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. Although many of our marketing partners agree to an initial one or two-year term contract, some of our marketing partner agreements are terminable more quickly. Many factors influence the success of our relationship with our marketing partners, including: • the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner; • the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services; • the interest of the marketing partner’s customers in the health insurance products that we offer on our ecommerce platform; • the contractual terms we negotiate with the marketing partner, including the marketing fee we agree to pay a marketing partner; • the percentage of the marketing partner’s customers that submit applications or purchase health insurance policies through our ecommerce platform; • the ability of a marketing partner to maintain efficient and uninterrupted operation of its website; and • our ability to work with the marketing partner to implement website changes, launch marketing campaigns and pursue other initiatives necessary to maintain positive consumer experiences and acceptable traffic volumes. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners or fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. The demand for the health insurance products that we market and sell can be significantly impacted by economic and other factors beyond our control. Our revenue depends upon demand for health insurance in the individual, family and small business markets, which can be influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. For instance, we believe that the number of small businesses is growing and that an increasing number of individuals are becoming self-employed. In addition, as a result of substantial health insurance premium inflation in recent years, we believe that many employers are seeking to reduce the costs associated with providing health insurance to their employees, including offering fewer benefits to employees, reducing or eliminating dependent coverage, increasing employee health insurance premium contributions and eliminating health insurance benefits altogether. We also believe that demand in the individual and family health insurance market will increase as the employees of these 24 Table of Contents employers look to other sources for their health insurance needs and as the number of small businesses and self-employed individuals increases. We have no control over the economic and other factors that influence these trends, and if these trends reverse, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We rely on health insurance carriers to accurately and regularly prepare commission reports, and if these reports are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. Health insurance carriers typically pay us a specified percentage of the premium amount collected by the carrier during the period that a member maintains coverage under a policy. We rely on carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. It is often difficult for us to independently determine whether or not carriers are reporting all commissions due to us, primarily because the majority of our members terminate their policies by discontinuing their premium payments to the carrier instead of by informing us of the cancellation. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, we will not collect and recognize revenue to which we are entitled, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results fluctuate depending upon health insurance carrier payment practices and the timing of our receipt of commission reports from health insurance carriers. The timing of our revenue depends upon the timing of our receipt of commission reports and associated payments from health insurance carriers. Although carriers typically report and pay commissions to us on a monthly basis, there have been instances where their report of commissions and payment have been delayed for several months. In addition, much of our commission override revenue is not reported and paid to us in accordance with a scheduled pattern, and some is only reported and paid to us once per year. This could result in a large amount of commission revenue from a carrier being recorded in a given quarter that is not indicative of the amount of revenue we may receive from that carrier in subsequent quarters, causing fluctuations in our operating results. We could report revenue below the expectations of our investors or securities analysts in any particular period if a material report or payment from a health insurance carrier were delayed for any reason. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors. The market for selling health insurance products is intensely competitive and the sale of health insurance over the Internet is new and rapidly evolving. Consumers have the ability to use several sources other than our ecommerce platform to research and purchase health insurance. In addition, consumers can research health insurance using our ecommerce platform and purchase their health insurance through one of our competitors. We compete with a large number of local insurance agents across the United States that sell health insurance products in their local communities. Some of these traditional insurance agents utilize the Internet in various ways to acquire their customers. For instance, some local agents use “lead aggregator” services that find potential consumers and are compensated for referring that consumer to the traditional agent. As we do, lead aggregators often use Internet search engines and other forms of online advertising to drive Internet traffic to the lead aggregator’s website. In addition to traditional agents, a number of agents operate websites that provide some form of online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. Although most of these online agents only sell health insurance in a limited number of states and/or represent only a limited number of health insurance carriers, these agents could expand their service area and product offerings. Moreover, while national insurance brokers such as Aon Insurance Services, Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., Marsh, Inc. and Willis Group Limited, have traditionally not focused on the individual, family and small business markets, they could enter these markets and compete with us in the future, particularly if these markets continue to grow. We also compete 25 Table of Contents directly with health insurance carriers, including many of the carriers that offer health insurance through our ecommerce platform. Many carriers market and sell their health insurance plans directly to consumers using call centers, their own websites and other means. We also believe that we are likely to face increasing competition as the online financial services industry develops and evolves. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to: • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; • devote more resources to website and systems development; • negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments; and • make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. Competitive pressures may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website and loss of market share, or otherwise may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with our operations in China. A portion of our operations is conducted in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update the significant amount of software on our ecommerce platform. This and other information is delivered to us through secured communications over the Internet. Our business would be harmed if this connection temporarily failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States, and different labor and tax laws. United States and Chinese trade laws may impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China, which in turn could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. We plan to continue to expand our Chinese operations. These plans will require additional management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, as we have limited experience with respect to operations in China. In addition, we are currently evaluating whether to market and sell insurance in China. If we determine to do so, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in operating our business in China, since we have no experience marketing or selling insurance in China or in adapting our business to Chinese markets and cultures, legal and regulatory regimes or business customs. Our rate of growth may decline if we are unable to increase our revenue relating to sponsorship advertising. We sell advertising space to health insurance carriers on our website through our sponsorship advertising program. Our sponsorship advertising program allows carriers to purchase advertising space in specific markets in a sponsorship area on our website. Specifically, carriers who have purchased advertising can choose to have specific health insurance plans displayed prominently after a consumer has entered certain census information. Our revenue to date from the sale of sponsorship advertising has constituted a relatively small percentage of our total revenue. Our sponsorship advertising initiative is relatively new and unproven and, if we do not continue to successfully increase our revenue from the sale of sponsorship advertising, our rate of growth may decline. The success of our sponsorship advertising program is dependent upon a number of factors, including consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to attract consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and convert those 26 Table of Contents consumers into members, the existence of a relationship between us and a diverse group of carriers that offer a number of health insurance plans in the markets in which we attempt to sell sponsorship advertising, the cost and other features of the health insurance product that is the subject of the sponsorship advertising, the impact the sponsorship advertising has on the sale of the health insurance product that is the subject of the advertising and the effectiveness of the carrier’s other means of advertising. In addition, while our practice of selling sponsorship advertising is described on our ecommerce platform, it could cause consumers to perceive us as not objective, which could harm our brand and result in a decline in our health insurance sales. It also could adversely impact our relationship with health insurance carriers that do not purchase our sponsorship advertising. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be successful in licensing our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and other third parties. We license the use of our ecommerce technology to health insurance carriers and agents. Carriers use our platform to offer their own health insurance policies on their websites, and agents use it to power their quoting and online content. Our revenue to date from the licensing of our ecommerce technology has constituted a relatively small percentage of our total revenue. Our technology licensing initiative is relatively new and unproven and, if we do not continue to successfully increase our revenue from the license of our technology, our rate of growth may decline. The business of licensing the use of our technology to others could facilitate carrier and other third party competition with us in the sale of health insurance over the Internet and is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to establish relationships with new health insurance carriers, the reliability and performance of our ecommerce platform and the relative cost of developing competing technology. If we are not able to offer health insurance carriers and other third parties a reliable platform to cost-efficiently offer their products over the Internet, our technology licensing business will be unsuccessful. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and operating results. We believe that our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business and that our technology infrastructure currently gives us a competitive advantage in the distribution of individual, family and small business health insurance. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. Although we have pending patent applications in the United States, they may not result in issued patents. We have not filed for protection of our intellectual property in any foreign jurisdiction other than China. We have Chinese-registered computer software copyrights for an internally-developed software system and a project management tool and have filed certain trademark applications in China. We have not filed any patent applications in China. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks, copyrights and patents if issued, may be held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, the law relating to intellectual property is not as developed in China, and our intellectual property rights may not be as respected in China as they are in the United States. Any United States or other patents issued to us may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies, and given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to seek patent protection for certain of our proprietary technologies. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our management’s attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet and technology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management’s attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our service and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our website or that we distribute will likely harm our business and operating results. Our members rely upon information we provide on our website, through our customer care center or otherwise regarding the health insurance plans offered on our website, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our website. Separately, from time to time, we use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and effectuate reform at the state and federal level relating to the accessibility and affordability of health insurance. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care center or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, and state regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our license to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our management’s attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our service. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In September 2006, we received an order from the Office of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Washington in connection with our publication of a report in July 2006 entitled The Most Affordable Cities for Children’s and Family Health Insurance. The Office of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Washington contends that the report is advertising and that our alleged mischaracterization of the affordability of individual health insurance in Spokane, Washington caused a violation of various Washington laws governing advertising, including prohibitions against false and misleading advertising in the conduct of insurance business. In general terms, the order requires us to cease and desist from further publication, distribution or republication of the report and from granting permission to republish, or assisting in the republication of, the report. We have challenged the order through an administrative proceeding and the order has been stayed pending the resolution of that proceeding. 28 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of our business, we have received and may continue to receive inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters from time to time, including the order from the Office of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Washington. We may also become involved in litigation in the future in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations in the state of Washington or in other states, we could be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our license to sell insurance in those states, and our business and financial results would be harmed. We would also be harmed to the extent that related publicity damages our reputation as a trusted source of objective information relating to health insurance and its affordability. It could also be costly to defend ourselves regardless of the outcome. We rely on insurance to mitigate some risks and, to the extent the cost of insurance increases or we maintain insufficient coverage, our business and operating results may be harmed. We contract for insurance to cover potential business risks and liabilities. In the current environment, insurance companies are increasingly specific about what they will and will not insure. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay very high prices for the coverage we do obtain or may not acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk. This could leave us exposed, and to the extent we incur liabilities and expenses for which we are not adequately insured, our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Also, to the extent the cost of maintaining insurance increases, our operating expenses will rise, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is critical to our success. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed. Our senior management and key employees are substantially vested in their stock options as of December 31, 2006. While we have in the past, and may in the future, grant these employees additional equity incentives, these employees may be more likely to leave us after their existing stock options fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the option exercise price. Our senior management and key employees work for us on an at-will basis and our business could be harmed if we lose their services. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business and operating results would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly and anticipate that further expansion will be required in order for us to grow our business. Our growth has placed, and if our growth continues will continue to place, increasing and significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems and infrastructure and our other resources. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to manage future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also be required to continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls. These improvements may require significant capital expenditures and will place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls. If we do not successfully implement improvements in these areas, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. 29 Table of Contents Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. The number of health insurance applications submitted through our ecommerce platform has generally increased in our first quarter compared to our fourth quarter and in our third quarter compared to our second quarter. Conversely, we have generally experienced a decline in submitted applications in our second quarter compared to our first quarter and in our fourth quarter compared to our third quarter. Because a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses are driven by the number of health insurance applications submitted on our ecommerce platform, those expenses generally have increased or decreased in conjunction with these seasonal patterns. We believe that consumer adoption of the Internet is still in its early stages and, therefore, the reasons for these seasonal patterns are not entirely clear. As the use of the Internet for the purchase and sale of health insurance becomes more widely accepted, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we experience may change. Any seasonality that we experience may cause fluctuations in our financial results. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. We may decide to acquire businesses, products and technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date, and our ability as an organization to successfully make acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may require the amortization, write down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • we may be required to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; • we may have to issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and • acquisitions may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisition on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue an acquisition, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or that the financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisition. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any additional financing we secure may be subject to terms that are unfavorable to us and our stockholders. If we raise additional capital through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of us, and any new equity securities 30 Table of Contents we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Issues arising from the implementation of our new commission accounting system and an enterprise data management system could affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. We have completed implementation of our new commission accounting system for the majority of our health insurance products. We anticipate completion of the last phase, related to our small business products, in the first half of 2007. In addition, we are in the initial stages of implementing an enterprise data management system. Each of these systems is or will be important to our accounting, financial and operating functions, and the implementation of these systems raises costs and risks associated with the conversion to new systems, including disruption to our normal accounting procedures and problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources and could harm our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or the consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could harm our ability to operate our business. In addition, investor perception that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a consistent basis may adversely affect our stock price. Our net income in future periods could be significantly reduced as a result of employee stock-based compensation expense. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires measurement of all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated financial statements. The adoption of SFAS 123R requires additional accounting related to the income tax effects, and additional disclosure regarding the cash flow effects, resulting from share-based payment arrangements. We adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. As permitted, we will continue to account for the portion of awards outstanding on or before December 31, 2005 using the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related interpretative guidance. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded stock-based compensation expense totaling $283,000 related to stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units granted to employees and accounted for in 31 Table of Contents accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R. Total unamortized stock-based compensation cost related to these stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units at December 31, 2006 was approximately $3.6 million, net of estimated forfeitures of $383,000. This amount will be amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of approximately 3.5 years and will be adjusted for subsequent changes in estimated forfeitures. Because the amount, terms and fair values of awards to be issued in the future are unknown, we are unable to predict the future impact on our consolidated financial statements of stock-based compensation expense related to future awards. However, we expect that the impact could be material over time as the number of awards issued and outstanding increases. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will continue to incur auditing, consulting and other costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will continue to incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Global Market. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Being a public company has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Any of these expenses could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any expansion of our business into foreign countries involves significant risks. Although we currently do not sell health insurance or license our technology platform outside the United States, we are exploring ways to expand our business into foreign countries, particularly China. We would face significant challenges in connection with expanding our business into a foreign country. Demand for private health insurance is not significant in many foreign countries, including China, as a result of government-sponsored healthcare systems. In addition to facing many of the same challenges we face domestically, we also would have to overcome other obstacles such as: • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of United States companies to market insurance or otherwise do business in foreign countries; • varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions; • less extensive adoption of the Internet as a commerce medium or information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; and • the adaptation of our website and distribution model to fit the particular foreign country. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand our services internationally or we may be unsuccessful should we attempt to do so, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Insurance Regulation Compliance with the strict regulatory environment applicable to the health insurance industry and the specific products we sell is difficult and costly. If we fail to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that are applicable to our business, our business and operating results would be harmed. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated by each state in the United States. For instance, state regulators require us to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and 32 Table of Contents further require that we adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdiction’s insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to: • grant and revoke licenses to transact insurance business; • conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies; • require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance; • authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold; • approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers; • regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages; • approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates; • impose fines and other penalties; and • impose continuing education requirements. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. Failure to comply could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements or the revocation of licenses in a particular jurisdiction, which could significantly increase our operating expenses, prevent us from transacting health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. Because some consumers, marketing partners and health insurance carriers may not be comfortable with the concept of purchasing health insurance using the Internet, any negative publicity may affect us more than it would others in the health insurance industry and would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from state insurance regulators regarding our marketing and business practices. We typically respond by explaining how we believe we are in compliance with relevant regulations or may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. Any modification of our marketing or business practices in response to future regulatory inquiries could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Regulation of the sale of health insurance is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business and operating results. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, once health insurance pricing is set by the carrier and approved by state regulators, it is fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance products offered on our website. If these regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance products sold through our ecommerce platform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents Another example of a potentially adverse regulatory change relates to the adoption of “guaranteed issue” laws and regulations in the individual and family health insurance markets. These requirements, which are currently in effect in a limited number of states such as Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, and have been proposed in California, prohibit health insurance carriers from denying health insurance coverage to individuals based on their health status. It has been our experience that substantially fewer health insurance carriers offer plans in the individual and family health insurance market in states with guaranteed issue regulations in effect compared to others. Moreover, health insurance carriers that do offer individual and family plans may charge substantially increased premiums and/or pay reduced commissions to agents. We believe that limited choice and high premiums result in less demand for individual and family health insurance plans which, when coupled with reduced commissions to agents, results in substantially less revenue for us in these states. Our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed if the adoption of guaranteed issue laws or regulations becomes more widespread and results in less demand and/or reduced commissions. In some states, guaranteed issue laws have or could be coupled with related measures that may impact our business. For example, a recent proposal in California included a combination of a number of items, including a guaranteed issue component, a “mandate” that requires all individuals to purchase or otherwise obtain health insurance and a requirement that health insurance carriers spend 85% of premium revenue on patient care. We do not know what impact a combination of mandates and other related measures would have on our business, but they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to additional insurance regulatory risks, because we use the Internet as our distribution platform. In many cases, it is not clear how existing insurance laws and regulations apply to Internet-related health insurance advertisements and transactions. To the extent that new laws or regulations are adopted that conflict with the way we conduct our business, or to the extent that existing laws and regulations are interpreted adversely to us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Changes and developments in the structure of the health insurance system in the United States could harm our business. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, its relative role in financing healthcare delivery and health insurance carriers’ use of agents and brokers to market their products. Fundamental changes to this system or in the manner in which health insurance is distributed in the United States could reduce or eliminate the demand for private health insurance for individuals, families and small businesses or increase our competition, which would harm our business. Recently, there has been substantial national and state attention and debate regarding the fairest and most effective method of healthcare reimbursement. For instance, some advocates promote a single-payer healthcare system that would be largely underwritten by the state or federal government. The adoption of state or federal laws that promote or establish a government-sponsored single-payer healthcare system could reduce or eliminate the number of individuals, families and small businesses seeking or permitted to purchase private health insurance or supplemental coverage, which would substantially reduce the demand for our service and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Other proposals seek to provide health insurance coverage to all individuals, but do so by maintaining many key aspects of the private sector health insurance system rather than proposing a single-payer system. One example is California, which has proposed a plan that includes guaranteed issue laws, a mandate that requires all individuals to obtain health insurance, incentives for many employers to offer health insurance to workers, and a requirement that health insurance carriers spend 85% of premium revenue on patient care. We do not know what impact the California plan and any related proposals may have on our business, but they could, if implemented, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Internet and Electronic Commerce Our business is subject to online commerce security risks and if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, our business will be harmed. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential information of consumers and the transmission of this information to their chosen health insurance carriers. For example, we collect names, addresses, Social Security and credit card numbers, and information regarding the medical history of consumers in connection with their application for health insurance. We currently rely on encryption technology licensed from third parties to facilitate secure transmittal of confidential information. We incorporate a multi-level firewall infrastructure to help prevent unauthorized access to our systems and data and have implemented intrusion detection systems. While we have not to date experienced any security breaches of which we are aware that has resulted in the theft of information, we cannot guarantee that we will be free of security breaches in the future. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security could damage our reputation and our relationship with our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, could reduce demand for our service and could subject us to significant liability as well as regulatory action, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. The laws governing general commerce on the Internet remain unsettled and it may take years to fully determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. Any new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations relating to the Internet could harm our business and we could be forced to incur substantial costs in order to comply with them, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to correspond with our consumers by email. We use email to market our service to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of email for marketing purposes continue to evolve and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the Internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as “spam.” If an Internet service provider or software program identifies email from us as “spam,” we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members who maintain email accounts with these Internet service providers or who use these software programs. If we are unable to communicate by email with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Consumers depend upon third-party service providers to access our website, and our business and operating results could be harmed as a result of technical difficulties experienced by these service providers. Consumers using our website depend upon Internet, online and other service providers for access to our website. Many of these service providers have experienced significant outages, delays and other difficulties in the past and could experience them in the future. Any significant interruption in access to our website or increase 35 Table of Contents in our website’s response time as a result of these difficulties could damage our relationship with insurance carriers, marketing partners and existing and potential members and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the 180-day contractual lock-up they entered into in connection with our initial public offering and other legal restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly and could decline below the initial public offering price. As of December 31, 2006, we had 21,748,932 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, only 5,750,000 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Merrill Lynch may, in their sole discretion, permit our officers, directors, employees and current stockholders to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements on April 11, 2007. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expire and based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006, an additional 15,998,932 shares will be eligible for sale in the public market. Directors, executive officers and other affiliates held 13,015,759 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2006 and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, outstanding options to purchase 5,436,062 shares of our common stock and restricted stock units covering 33,256 shares of common stock under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, 2005 Stock Plan and 1998 Stock Plan as of December 31, 2006, plus 2,713,901 shares reserved for future issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan as of January 1, 2007 will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities beneficially owned approximately 60 percent of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • cumulative voting in the election of directors is prohibited, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; 36 Table of Contents • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may, in general, not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 