ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements in this “Risk Factors” section describe material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. You should review carefully the risk factors listed below, as well as those factors listed in other documents we file with the SEC. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s current plans and assumptions. These include statements regarding: • our markets; • demand and prices for our products; • raw material costs and supply; • energy prices, sales and our initiatives to enhance our generation and sales of surplus energy; • capital expenditures and expected returns or benefits; • the economy; • foreign exchange rates — particularly the U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar; • our level of indebtedness; • climate change; and • derivatives. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as “may”, “will”, “believe”, “project”, “expect”, “estimate”, “assume”, “intend”, “anticipate”, “plan”, and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities law. You can find examples of these statements throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, including in the description of business in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. While these forward-looking statements reflect our best estimates when made, the following risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections. We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). You should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. As noted above, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date when they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. Moreover, in the future, we may make forward-looking statements that involve the risk factors and other matters described in this document as well as other risk factors subsequently identified. Our business is highly cyclical in nature. The pulp business is highly cyclical in nature and markets for our principal products are characterized by periods of supply and demand imbalance, which in turn affects product prices. Pulp markets are highly competitive and are sensitive to cyclical changes in the global economy, industry capacity and foreign exchange rates, all of which can have a significant influence on selling prices and our operating results. The length and magnitude of 27 Table of Contents industry cycles have varied over time but generally reflect changes in macro economic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Industry capacity can fluctuate as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle production capacity or permanently close mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which can prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply of our products can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable pricing trends. Demand for pulp has historically been determined by the level of economic growth and has been closely tied to overall business activity. From 2006 to mid-2008, pulp prices steadily improved. However, a global economic crisis in the latter half of 2008 resulted in a sharp decline of pulp prices from a high of €900 per ADMT to €635 per ADMT at the end of 2008. Although pulp prices began to increase in the second half of 2009, there may be renewed pulp price deterioration in the future. We cannot predict the impact of sustained economic weakness on the demand and prices for our products. Prices for pulp are driven by many factors outside our control, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. Because market conditions beyond our control determine the price for pulp, prices may fall below our cash production costs, requiring us to either incur short-term losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our mills. Therefore, our profitability depends on managing our cost structure, particularly raw materials which represent a significant component of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. If the prices of our products decline, or if prices for our raw materials increase, or both, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately €829.2 million of indebtedness outstanding, of which €514.6 million relates to the Stendal Loan Facility. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our high debt levels may have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes or to fund future operations may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all; • a significant amount of our operating cash flow is dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby diminishing funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and for other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to current and future adverse economic and industry conditions; • a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or increase in our expenses could make it more difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements, which could force us to modify our operations; • our leveraged capital structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage by hindering our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions or by making us vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy in general; • causing us to offer debt or equity securities on terms that may not be favorable to us or our shareholders; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our business and our industry; and • our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal or interest due in respect of our indebtedness. The indenture relating to our Senior Notes and our bank credit facilities contain restrictive covenants which impose operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions will affect, and in many respects will limit or prohibit, our ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or enter into sale/leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or redeem or repurchase capital stock, make investments or acquisitions, create liens and enter into mergers, consolidations or transactions 28 Table of Contents with affiliates. The terms of our indebtedness also restrict our ability to sell certain assets, apply the proceeds of such sales and reinvest in our business. Failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture relating to our Senior Notes or in our bank credit facilities could result in events of default and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend on our future financial and operating performance. Our performance, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions, as well as financial, business, legislative, regulatory, industry and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our future debt service and other obligations, in particular the Stendal Loan Facility, may depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement successfully our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our strategy fully or that the anticipated results of our strategy will be realized. The weak global economy could adversely affect our business and financial results and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Global financial markets experienced extreme and unprecedented disruption in the second half of 2008, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Although financial markets have stabilized and signs of a global economic recovery began to emerge in the latter part of 2009, the economic environment, particularly in the United States and Europe, continues to be weak and we remain subject to a number of risks associated with these adverse economic conditions. Principally, as pulp demand has historically been determined by the level of economic growth and business activity, demand and prices for our product have historically decreased substantially during economic slowdowns. Additionally, restricted credit availability restrains our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our products resulting in lower revenues. Restricted credit availability also can restrict us in the way we operate our business, our level of inventories and the amount of capital expenditures we may undertake. Depending on their severity and duration, the effects and consequences of a global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to raise capital, if needed, and otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. The nature of the recovery in the financial markets and in the global economy in general remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future. In a weak pulp price and demand environment, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service, repay or refinance debt. Although the global economy began to recover in the latter half of 2009, leading to improved pulp demand and prices, the duration and extent of such recovery is not known and there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows to service, repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness when it matures should the world economy experience another significant economic downturn. Cyclical fluctuations in the price and supply of our raw materials could adversely affect our business. Our main raw material is fiber in the form of wood chips and pulp logs. Such fiber is cyclical in terms of both price and supply. The cost of wood chips and pulp logs is primarily affected by the supply and demand for lumber. Demand for these raw materials is generally determined by the volume of pulp and paper products produced globally and regionally. Since 2006 generally higher energy prices, a focus on, and governmental initiatives related to, “green” or renewable energy have led to an increase in renewable energy projects in Europe, including Germany. Demand for wood residuals from such energy producers has generally put upward pressure on prices for wood residuals such as wood chips in Germany and its neighboring countries. This has resulted in higher fiber costs for our German mills and such trend could continue to put further upward pressure on wood chip prices. Similarly, North American energy producers are exploring the viability of renewable energy initiatives and governmental initiatives in this field are increasing, all of which could lead to higher demand for sawmill residual fiber, including 29 Table of Contents chips. The cyclical nature of pricing for these raw materials represents a potential risk to our profit margins if pulp producers are unable to pass along price increases to their customers or we cannot offset such costs through higher prices for our surplus energy. We do not own any timberlands or have any long-term governmental timber concessions nor do we have any long-term fiber contracts at our German operations. Raw materials are available from a number of suppliers and we have not historically experienced material supply interruptions or substantial sustained price increases, however our requirements have increased and may continue to increase as we increase capacity through capital projects or other efficiency measures at our mills. As a result, we may not be able to purchase sufficient quantities of these raw materials to meet our production requirements at prices acceptable to us during times of tight supply. In addition, the quantity and quality of fiber we receive could be reduced as a result of industrial disputes, material curtailments or shut-down of operations by suppliers, government orders and legislation, weather conditions, acts of god and other events beyond our control. An insufficient supply of fiber or reduction in the quality of fiber we receive would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition to the supply of wood fiber, we are dependent on the supply of certain chemicals and other inputs used in our production facilities. Any disruption in the supply of these chemicals or other inputs could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. Any material increase in the cost of these chemicals or other inputs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We operate in highly competitive markets. We sell our pulp globally, with a large percentage sold in Europe, North America and Asia. The markets for pulp are highly competitive. A number of other global companies compete in each of these markets and no company holds a dominant position. Our pulp is considered a commodity because many companies produce similar and largely standardized products. As a result, the primary basis for competition in our markets has been price. Many of our competitors have greater resources and lower leverage than we do and may be able to adapt more quickly to industry or market changes or devote greater resources to the sale of products than we can. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be competitive in the future. The global pulp market has historically been characterized by considerable swings in prices which have and will result in variability in our earnings. Prices are typically denominated in U.S. dollars. We are exposed to currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations. In 2009, the majority of our sales were in products quoted in U.S. dollars while most of our operating costs and expenses, other than those of the Celgar mill, were incurred in Euros. In addition, all of the products sold by the Celgar mill are quoted in U.S. dollars and the Celgar mill costs are primarily incurred in Canadian dollars. Our results of operations and financial condition are reported in Euros. As a result, our revenues are adversely affected by a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and to the Canadian dollar. Such shifts in currencies relative to the Euro and the Canadian dollar reduce our operating margins and the cash flow available to fund our operations and to service our debt. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In 2002, Stendal entered into variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps to fix interest payments under the Stendal mill financing facility, which has kept Stendal from benefiting from the general decline in interest rates that ensued. These derivatives are marked to market at the end of each reporting period and all unrealized gains and losses are recognized in earnings for the relevant reporting periods. Increases in our capital expenditures or maintenance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Our business is capital intensive and requires that we regularly incur capital expenditures to maintain our equipment, improve efficiencies and comply with environmental laws. Our annual capital expenditures may vary due to fluctuations in requirements for maintenance, business capital, expansion and as a result of changes to environmental regulations that require capital expenditures to bring our operations into compliance with such 30 Table of Contents regulations. In addition, our senior management and board of directors may approve projects in the future that will require significant capital expenditures. Increased capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. Further, while we regularly perform maintenance on our manufacturing equipment, key pieces of equipment in our various production processes may still need to be repaired or replaced. If we do not have sufficient funds or such repairs or replacements are delayed, the costs of repairing or replacing such equipment and the associated downtime of the affected production line could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We use derivatives to manage certain risk which has caused significant fluctuations in our operating results. We use derivative instruments to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Concurrently with entering into the Stendal financing, Stendal entered into variable-to-fixed rate interest swaps for the full term of the Stendal Loan Facility to manage its interest rate risk exposure with respect to the full principal amount of this facility. We record unrealized gains or losses on our derivative instruments when they are marked to market at the end of each reporting period and realized gains or losses on them when they are settled. These unrealized and realized gains and losses can materially impact our operating results for any reporting period. For example, our operating results for 2009 included unrealized net losses of €5.7 million on our interest rate derivatives. For 2008, our operating results included unrealized net losses of €25.2 million on our interest rate derivatives. Our operating results for 2007 included realized and unrealized net gains of €20.4 million on currency and interest rate derivatives. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we utilize are not effective, we may incur losses which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Further, we may in the future use derivative instruments to manage pulp price risks. The purpose of our derivative activity may also be considered speculative in nature; we do not use these instruments with respect to any pre-set percentage of revenues or other formula, but either to augment our potential gains or reduce our potential losses depending on our perception of future economic events and developments. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and we could have environmental liabilities at our facilities. Our operations are subject to numerous environmental laws as well as permits, guidelines and policies. These laws, permits, guidelines and policies govern, among other things: • unlawful discharges to land, air, water and sewers; • waste collection, storage, transportation and disposal; • hazardous waste; • dangerous goods and hazardous materials and the collection, storage, transportation and disposal of such substances; • the clean-up of unlawful discharges; • land use planning; • municipal zoning; and • employee health and safety. In addition, as a result of our operations, we may be subject to remediation, clean up or other administrative orders or amendments to our operating permits, and we may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings or inquiries. Future orders, proceedings or inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and land use laws and regulations are constantly changing. New regulations or the increased enforcement of existing laws could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, compliance with regulatory requirements is expensive, at times requiring the replacement, enhancement or modification of equipment, facilities or operations. There can be 31 Table of Contents no assurance that we will be able to maintain our profitability by offsetting any increased costs of complying with future regulatory requirements. We are subject to liability for environmental damage at the facilities that we own or operate, including damage to neighboring landowners, residents or employees, particularly as a result of the contamination of soil, groundwater or surface water and especially drinking water. The costs of such liabilities can be substantial. Our potential liability may include damages resulting from conditions existing before we purchased or operated these facilities. We may also be subject to liability for any offsite environmental contamination caused by pollutants or hazardous substances that we or our predecessors arranged to transport, treat or dispose of at other locations. In addition, we may be held legally responsible for liabilities as a successor owner of businesses that we acquire or have acquired. Except for Stendal, our facilities have been operating for decades and we have not done invasive testing to determine whether or to what extent environmental contamination exists. As a result, these businesses may have liabilities for conditions that we discover or that become apparent, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners. Because of the limited availability of insurance coverage for environmental liability, any substantial liability for environmental damage could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant capital expenditures. We may be unable to generate sufficient funds or access other sources of capital to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. The Celgar Energy Project may not generate the results or benefits we expect. The Celgar Energy Project is subject to customary risks and uncertainties inherent for large capital projects which could result in the project not completing on schedule or as budgeted. The Celgar mill could experience operating difficulties or delays during the start-up period when production of “green” energy is being ramped up. The Celgar Energy Project may not achieve our planned power generation or the level required under the electricity purchase agreement concluded with British Columbia’s principal power authority. Cost overruns, equipment breakdowns or failures to perform to design specifications, delays in the generation and sales of surplus energy, including contracted amounts, could have a material adverse effect on our Celgar mill’s results of operations and financial performance. Our business is subject to risks associated with climate change and social and government responses thereto. Currently, there are differing scientific studies and opinions relating to the severity, extent and speed at which climate change is or may be occurring around the world. As a result, we are currently unable to identify and predict all of the specific consequences of climate change on our business and operations. To date, the potential and/or perceived effects of climate change and social and government responses to it have created both opportunities, such as enhanced sales of surplus “green” energy, and risks for our business. While all of the specific consequences from climate change are not yet predictable, we are subject to risks that government and social focus on and demand for “carbon neutral” or “green” energy will create greater demand for the wood residuals or fiber that is consumed by our pulp mills as part of their production process. In addition, governmental initiatives or legislation may also increase both the demand and prices for wood residuals. As governments pursue green energy initiatives, they may implement financial, tax, pricing or other legislated incentives for renewable energy producers that “cannibalize” or materially adversely affect fiber supplies for existing traditional users, such as lumber and pulp and paper producers. Such additional demand for wood residuals and/or governmental initiatives may materially increase the competition and prices for wood residuals over time. This could increase our fiber costs and/or restrict our ability to acquire fiber at competitive prices or at all during times of shortages. If our fiber costs increase and we cannot pass on these costs to our customers or offset them through higher prices for our sales of surplus energy, it will negatively affect our operating margins, results of operations and financial position. If we cannot obtain the fiber required to 32 Table of Contents operate our mills, we may have to curtail and/or shut down production. This could have a material adverse effect on operations, financial results and financial position. Other potential risks to our business from climate change include: • a greater susceptibility of northern softwood forest to disease, fire and insect infestation, which could diminish fiber availability; • the disruption of transportation systems and power supply lines due to more severe storms; • the loss of water transportation for logs and our finished goods inventories due to lower water levels; • decreases in quantity and quality of processed water for our mill operations; • the loss of northern softwood boreal forests in areas in sufficient proximity to our mills to competitively acquire fiber; and • lower harvest levels decreasing the supply of harvestable timber and, as a consequence, wood residuals. The occurrence of some or all of these events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or financial results. We are subject to risks related to our employees. The majority of our employees are unionized. In the future we may enter into a collective agreement with our pulp workers at the Stendal mill. The collective agreements relating to hourly workers at both our Rosenthal and Celgar mills expired in 2008. In September 2008, we negotiated a new four-year collective agreement, effective May 1, 2008, with the hourly workers at our Celgar mill and, in January 2009, we entered into a new collective agreement with our Rosenthal employees. Although we have not experienced any work stoppages in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate acceptable collective agreements or other satisfactory arrangements with our employees upon the expiration of our collective agreements or in conjunction with the establishment of a new agreement or arrangement with our pulp workers at the Stendal mill. This could result in a strike or work stoppage by the affected workers. The registration or renewal of the collective agreements or the outcome of our wage negotiations could result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. Accordingly, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations or higher on-going labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We rely on German federal and state government grants and guarantees. We currently benefit from a subsidized capital expenditure program and lower cost of financing as a result of German federal and state government grants and guarantees at our Stendal mill. Should either the German federal or state governments be prohibited from honoring legislative grants and guarantees at Stendal, or should we be required to repay any such legislative grants, this may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The EU ETS and Germany’s Renewable Energy Act. Since 2005, our German mills have benefitted from sales of emission allowances under the EU ETS. As a result of our Rosenthal and Stendal mills’ recently commenced participation in the Renewable Energy Act, the amount of emissions allowances granted to our German mills under the EU ETS may be reduced. Additionally, the Renewable Energy Act is subject to governmental amendments which could adversely affect the eligibility of our Rosenthal and Stendal mills to participate in this statutory program and/or the tariffs paid thereunder. As a result we cannot predict with any certainty the amount of future sales of surplus energy we may be able to generate. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel. Our future success depends, to a large extent, on the efforts and abilities of our executive and senior mill operating officers. Such officers are industry professionals many of whom have operated through multiple business cycles. Our officers play an integral role in, among other things: • sales and marketing; • reducing operating costs; • identifying capital projects which provide a high rate of return; and • prioritizing expenditures and maintaining employee relations. The loss of one or more of our officers could make us less competitive in these areas which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not maintain any key person life insurance for any of our executive or senior mill operating officers. We may experience material disruptions to our production. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operations. Any of our mills could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: • unscheduled maintenance outages; • prolonged power failures; • equipment failure; • design error or operator error; • chemical spill or release; • explosion of a boiler; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railway tracks and tunnels; • fires, floods, earthquakes or other natural catastrophes; • prolonged supply disruption of major inputs; • labor difficulties; and • other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If any of our facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements would be impaired and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency), terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic and financial disruptions, could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage or operate our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate. We have obtained insurance coverage that we believe would ordinarily be maintained by an operator of facilities similar to our mills. Our insurance is subject to various limits and exclusions. Damage or destruction to our facilities 34 Table of Contents could result in claims that are excluded by, or exceed the limits of, our insurance coverage. Additionally, the weak global and financial markets have also reduced the availability and extent of credit insurance for our customers. If we cannot obtain adequate credit insurance for our customers, we may be forced to amend or curtail our planned operations which could negatively impact our sales revenues, results of operations and financial position. We rely on third parties for transportation services. Our business primarily relies upon third parties for the transportation of pulp to our customers, as well as for the delivery of our raw materials to our mills. Our pulp and raw materials are principally transported by truck, barge, rail and sea-going vessels, all of which are highly regulated. Increases in transportation rates can also materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if our transportation providers fail to deliver our pulp in a timely manner, it could negatively impact our customer relationships and we may be unable to sell it at full value. If our transportation providers fail to deliver our raw materials in a timely fashion, we may be unable to manufacture pulp in response to customer orders. Also, if any of our transportation providers were to cease operations, we may be unable to replace them at a reasonable cost. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Washington State law and our Articles of Incorporation may have anti-takeover effects which will make an acquisition of our Company by another company more difficult. We are subject to the provisions of Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act, contained within Title 23B of the Revised Code of Washington, which prohibits a Washington corporation, including our Company, from engaging in any significant business transaction with an “acquiring person” for a period of five years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an acquiring person, unless the significant business transaction is approved by a majority of our board of directors prior to the time the person became an acquiring person. A significant business transaction includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a disproportionate financial benefit to the acquiring person. Subject to certain exceptions, an “acquiring person” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns or acquires 10% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. We may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company. Under Washington State law, we have the ability to adopt certain of these measures, including, without limitation, a shareholder rights plan, without any further vote or action by the holders of our shares. These measures may have anti-takeover effects, which may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a holder of our shares might consider in its best interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 