ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report and in any documents incorporated in this report by reference. If any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. We are a development-stage company and might not be able to commercialize any product candidates. We are a development-stage company and have not demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; and • conducting sales and marketing activities. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, and undertaking pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our product candidate CH-1504. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our securities. We currently have no product revenue and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenue. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenue. Currently, our primary product candidate is CH-1504, and it is not approved by the FDA for sale. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and development expenditures from cash on hand, licensing fees and grants. We expect to seek additional sources of financing, which might not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might not be able to complete planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the issuance of our equity securities, which will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we might never achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and might never become profitable. From inception through December 31, 2005 we had losses of $10.9 million, and we anticipate losses in the range of $15 to 25 million during the 12 to 18 months commencing January 2006. Actual losses will depend on a number of considerations, including: • the pace and success of pre-clinical development and clinical trials for CH-1504 and any other product candidates; 12 Table of Contents • seeking regulatory approval for CH-1504 and any other product candidates; • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; • possible out-licensing of our product candidates; • in-licensing and development of additional product candidates; and • hiring additional personnel. We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and development expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We might not be able to generate revenue or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our securities. We might not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize any product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our primary product candidate CH-1504, or any product candidate we acquire or develop in the future. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidate in the U.S. and approvals from equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidate in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA a New Drug Application, or NDA, demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process might also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals might: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenue from, a product candidate; • impose costly procedures on us; and • diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for our primary product candidate CH-1504. Failure to obtain FDA approval of this product candidate will severely undermine our business by leaving us without a saleable product, and therefore without any source of revenue, until another product candidate can be developed. There is no guarantee that we will ever be able to develop or acquire another product candidate. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize any drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize product candidates for sale outside the United States. Our principal product candidate has only recently begun formal clinical trials. Our principal product candidate, CH-1504, is in an early stage of development and requires extensive clinical testing. In June 2005, we commenced Phase I dose escalation clinical trials of CH-1504 in humans in the United Kingdom at Guy’s Hospital in London, under the Clinical Trial Authorization, or CTA, issued by the 13 Table of Contents Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the United Kingdom’s health authority. We anticipate that the safety and pharmacokinetic data from this U.K. Phase I clinical trial will enable us to initiate Investigational New Drug, or IND, submissions for CH-1504 for both rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis with the U. S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, later this year to initiate Phase II trials in the United States. After the completion of those trials, we plan on initiating several additional Phase II studies (in other indications) and, in due course, Phase III studies in rheumatoid arthritis. Upon completion of the Phase III studies in rheumatoid arthritis, we hope to use data from these studies to file a New Drug Application, or NDA. We currently estimate a global filing of the NDA no sooner than late 2008. However, we cannot predict with any certainty the timing of our clinical trials, if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval of this product candidate or whether such an NDA will be accepted. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of any product candidate will take at least three years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials might be delayed by several factors, including: • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and • unexpected emergence of competitive drugs against which our compounds might need to be tested. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for future clinical trials. The results of our clinical trials might not support our product candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process might fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and might delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenue. Preliminary clinical trials conducted previously involved a small patient population over a relatively short period and because of these factors, the results might not be indicative of future results. Moreover, these initial trials were not performed in accordance with standards normally required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Physicians and patients might not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves our primary product candidate CH-1504, physicians and patients might not accept and use it. Acceptance and use of our product will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug; 14 Table of Contents • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect that sales of our primary product candidate could, if approved, generate substantially all of our product revenue for an extended period, the failure of this drug to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture any product candidates. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We currently have no contract for the commercial scale manufacture of our primary product candidate CH-1504. We intend to contract with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If CH-1504 or any product candidates we may develop or acquire in the future receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: • We might not be able to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. • Our future contract manufacturers might not perform as agreed or might not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenue. 15 Table of Contents We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not anticipate having significant resources in the foreseeable future to allocate to the sales and marketing of our proposed products. As a result, our future success depends, in part, on: • our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships for these capabilities; • the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development; and • such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products or if we decide to add internal resources to complement third party resources, significant development expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop our own marketing and sales force with technical expertise. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. The market for our primary product candidate CH-1504 is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If this product candidate receives FDA approval, it will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products might provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or might offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we will not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and oncology compounds already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: • developing drugs; • undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; • launching, marketing and selling drugs; and • post-marketing safety surveillance. Developments by competitors might render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. Companies that currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis include but are not limited to Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Aventis, Barr Laboratories, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma, Hoffman—La Roche, Johnson & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Mylan Laboratories. Alternative technologies are being developed to treat rheumatoid arthritis by numerous companies including Celltech and Genentech, which are in advanced clinical trials. See “Description of Business—Competition”. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. 16 Table of Contents Our success, competitive position and future revenue will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. As of February 21, 2006, our patent estate includes one issued U.S patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,912,251, dated June 15, 1999, entitled “Metabolically Inert Anti-Inflammatory and Anti-Tumor Antifolates”, the ‘251 patent, and several related patent applications pending in countries outside of the United States, including Europe and Japan. Our patent estate also includes one regular U.S. patent application and corresponding international PCT patent application, dated September 8, 2005, entitled “Metabolically Inert Antifolates for Treating Disorders of Abnormal Cell Proliferation.” Our issued U.S. patent covers our current product candidate, CH-1504, as well as certain analogues of CH-1504, including claims to these compounds as compositions of matter, in pharmaceutical formulations and for use in treatment of certain diseases. The pending U.S. patent application and international PCT application expand our proprietary position, claiming additional compounds and their uses as well as new uses of CH-1504. We plan to continue to strengthen our patent estate by filing and pursuing additional patents. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications or those patent applications that we may file or license in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Moreover, we cannot predict the degree of patent protection that will be afforded by those patent applications that do result in issuance. Although we generally seek the broadest patent protection available for our proprietary compounds, we may not be able to obtain patent protection for the actual composition of any particular compound and may be limited to protecting a new method of use for the compound or otherwise restricted in our ability to prevent others from exploiting the compound. If our patent protection for any particular compound is limited to a particular method of use or indication such that, if a third party were to obtain approval of the compound for use in another indication, we could be subject to competition arising from off-label use. Moreover, our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, any of which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar compounds or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights may result in liability for damages or prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts. If a third party were to file a patent infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent infringed, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Any necessary license may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing or have licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses they may sustain themselves as a result. If a third party legally challenges our patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our U.S. or foreign patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our patents or other intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar products. 17 Table of Contents We may initiate patent litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our patent rights. Failure to protect our patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. For example, we are the exclusive licensee of a reissue application of U.S Patent No. 5,912,251 filed in April 2004 to amend the Patent solely to acknowledge that federal funding had been provided in support of the Patent. An unidentified party filed a protest asking that the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, reject the claims of the “reissue patent” on several grounds, among them that the chemical compounds, including CH-1504, claimed in the reissue patent were purportedly “obvious” to a person having ordinary skill in the art as of the priority date of the patent based on prior patent issuances and publications. We submitted a comprehensive response to the protest in October 2004. As expected, the USPTO dismissed the protest and confirmed the previously granted claims in a communication dated April 5, 2005 and re-affirmed the Patent. The USPTO also stated that the reissue that we filed to add a statement regarding federal funding was not necessary and that the Patent remains in full force and effect. The USPTO suggested that we file a ministerial Certificate of Correction to add the reference to federal funding to the Patent. Existing patents and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, enforceability or scope of our patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. Some jurisdictions have laws that permit the government to force a patentee to grant a license to a third party for commercialization of a patented product if the government concludes that the product is not sufficiently developed or not meeting the health needs of the population. Such compulsory licensing laws are very rarely invoked outside of South America and Africa. In addition, a number of countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a new drug, it is possible that any related patent may expire before any of our product candidates can be commercialized or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. In either case, this would reduce any advantages of the patent. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under current and future license agreements, we could lose license rights which would adversely affect our business. We are a party to a license agreement with M. Gopal Nair. In particular, we license patent rights for CH-1504, our lead product candidate. We may enter into additional licenses in the future. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect future licenses will impose, various milestone payments, royalty payments and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, and in particular with Dr. Nair, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. If the licensor challenges our license position, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. Our license agreement with Dr. Nair reserves rights to the licensor in India. Therefore, we will not commercialize CH-1504 in India. If we are unable to enforce trade secret protection and confidentiality agreement with our employees, our competitive position might be harmed. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors, as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents are unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, it is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements might not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we might have to: • obtain licenses, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon an infringing drug candidate; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. Our ability to generate product revenue will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payers. 19 Table of Contents Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if a product candidate is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage might not be available and reimbursement levels might be inadequate to cover our drug. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product, once approved, market acceptance and our revenue could be reduced. We might not successfully manage our growth. We are a small, development stage company. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We currently have eight employees and anticipate hiring approximately four additional employees over the next 12 months. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We might be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities might involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures, and those of our partners, for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state, local and, where applicable, foreign laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products might require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. As a small, development-stage company, we are highly dependent on our executive officers, including particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Simon Pedder, Ph.D., and our principal scientific, regulatory and medical advisors. Dr. Pedder is the only executive officer whose employment with us is governed by an employment agreement, and the term of employment under that agreement expires in May 2006. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. As a small, development stage company, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in pre-clinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We might incur substantial liabilities and might be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we might incur substantial liabilities or be required 20 Table of Contents to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Although we carry clinical trial insurance, we might not be able to renew such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or our intended collaborators may be unable to obtain such insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, that indemnification might not be available or adequate should any claim arise. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls As a non-accelerated filer with a fiscal year end of December 31, we must first begin to comply with the internal control requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Until we are required to comply with Section 404, we will review, and where necessary, enhance our internal control design and documentation, management review, and ongoing risk assessment as part of our internal control program. In particular, management intends to expend time and financial resources during 2006 in anticipation of Section 404 compliance in 2007. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, or COSO. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify, may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, or that we will be able to complete any work required for our management to be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. During the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005, J.H. Cohn LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, brought to our attention a material weakness in our internal controls that failed to recognize that an outstanding stock option that was issued to a non-employee in December 2004 should be subject to variable plan accounting treatment under applicable accounting standards. This material weakness was discovered prior to publicly reporting our financial statements for such fiscal quarter, and accordingly, for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005, a compensation expense of approximately $500,000 was recognized. If our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board which could limit its trading. Since its listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, there has been only sporadic trading of our common stock. There are no plans, proposals, arrangements or understandings with any person with regard to the development of a trading market for our common stock, and no assurance can be given that a liquid trading market will develop. The prices at which are shares of our common stock are traded will likely be volatile. You should expect the prices at which our common stock is traded to be highly volatile. For example, since the merger between Chelsea Therapeutics, Inc. and Ivory Capital on February 11, 2005, the trading price of our common stock has been as low as $2.70 and as high as $36.00. The expected volatile price of our stock will make 21 Table of Contents it difficult to predict the value of your investment, to sell your shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of other factors might also affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delays or failures in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic or other crises and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • sales of our common stock. We will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that might have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors might seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. A small group of persons hold a significant amount of our stock and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Individuals affiliated with Paramount BioCapital, Inc. will beneficially own or control a significant portion of our common stock, including for this purpose, warrants. Including shares obtainable upon exercise of warrants, individuals affiliated with Paramount BioCapital own approximately 7.2 million shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 36.7% of our outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these persons will have significant influence over our business, the election of directors and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership might have the effect of facilitating, delaying, deferring or preventing a potential acquisition and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Three of the members of our board of directors are, or were recently, employees of Paramount BioCapital, Inc., or one of its affiliates. Additionally, Dr. Lindsay A. Rosenwald is the chairman and sole owner of Paramount BioCapital, Inc. Several trusts for the benefit of Dr. Rosenwald and his family beneficially own approximately 16.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Dr. Rosenwald does not have the legal authority to exercise voting power or investment discretion over the shares held by those trusts and disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by those trusts. In addition, Dr. Rosenwald is the managing member of Horizon Biomedical Ventures LLC, which will beneficially own approximately 0.8% of our outstanding common stock. Dr. Rosenwald disclaims beneficial ownership over the shares held by Horizon Biomedical Ventures LLC. We have never paid dividends and do not intend to pay cash dividends. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance our future operations. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 