D. Risk Factors I. Risks Relating to Jaguar’s Business Jaguar’s operations involve exploration and development and there is no guarantee that any such activity will result in commercial production of mineral deposits. The proposed programs on the exploration properties in which Jaguar holds an interest are exploratory in nature and such properties do not host known bodies of commercial ore. Development of these mineral properties is contingent upon, among other things, obtaining satisfactory exploration results. Mineral exploration and development involves substantial expenses related to locating and establishing mineral reserves, developing metallurgical processes and constructing mining and processing facilities at a particular site. It also involves a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to adequately mitigate. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines, and there is no assurance that commercial quantities of ore will be discovered on any of Jaguar’s exploration properties. There is also no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a mineral property will be brought into commercial production, or if brought into production, that it will be profitable. The discovery of mineral deposits is dependent upon a number of factors including the technical skill of the exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit is also dependent upon, among a number of other factors, its size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, current metal prices, and government regulations, including regulations relating to required permits, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but any one of these factors or the combination of any of these factors may prevent Jaguar from receiving an adequate return on invested capital. In addition, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years can elapse from the initial phase of drilling until commercial operations are commenced. Some ore reserves may become unprofitable to develop if there are unfavorable long-term market price fluctuations in gold, or if there are significant increases in operating or capital costs. Most of the above factors are beyond Jaguar’s control, and it is difficult to ensure that the exploration or development programs proposed by Jaguar will result in a profitable commercial mining operation. 10 The results of Jaguar’s Gurupi feasibility study remain subject to many risks relating both to that project and mining operations generally. Jaguar’s decision to develop a mineral property is typically based on the results of a feasibility study. Jaguar has completed feasibility study work which outlines Mineral Reserves for the Gurupi Project in accordance with NI 43-101. Feasibility studies estimate the anticipated project economic returns. These estimates are based on assumptions regarding, among other things: ·future gold prices; ·future foreign currency exchange rates; ·anticipated tonnages, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; ·anticipated recovery rates of gold extracted from the ore; and ·anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those estimated by such studies. Operating costs and capital expenditure are driven to a significant extent by the costs of the commodity inputs, including the cost of fuel and chemical reagents, consumed in mining activities. In addition, there are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine, including the timing and cost of the construction of mining and processing facilities (which can be considerable), the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities, and the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements, the ability to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the time to obtain such permits, and the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. These estimates used in Jaguar’s feasibility studies depend upon the data available and the assumptions made at the time the relevant estimate is made. Ore reserve estimates are not precise calculations and depend on the interpretation of limited information on the location, shape and continuity of the occurrence and on the available sampling results. Further exploration and feasibility studies can result in new data becoming available that may change previous ore reserve estimates which will impact upon both the technical and economic viability of production from the relevant mining project. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of mineral reserves resulting in revisions to previous ore reserve estimates. These revisions could impact depreciation and amortization rates, asset-carrying values provisions for closedown, restoration and environmental clean-up costs. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect Jaguar’s financial position and results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly operating costs denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, may significantly impact Jaguar’s financial position and results of operations. Jaguar generally sells its gold based on a U.S. dollar price, but a major portion of Jaguar’s operating expenses are incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. In addition, the appreciation of the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar has and could further increase the dollar costs of gold production at Jaguar’s mining operations in Brazil, which could materially and adversely affect Jaguar’s earnings and financial condition. Competition for new mining properties may prevent Jaguar from acquiring interests in additional properties or mining operations. The gold mining industry is intensely competitive. Significant and increasing competition exists for gold and other mineral acquisition opportunities throughout the world. Some of the competitors are large, more established mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than Jaguar. As a result of this competition, Jaguar may be unable to acquire rights to additional attractive mining properties on terms it considers acceptable. Increased competition could adversely affect Jaguar’s ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire an interest in additional operations that would yield reserves or result in commercial mining operations. 11 Jaguar relies on new management team and key personnel, and there is no assurance that such persons will fully transition into their respective new positions, remain at Jaguar, or that it will be able to recruit skilled individuals. In connection with the implementation of the CCAA Plan on April 22, 2014, Jaguar has reconstituted its Board with three new directors and appointed a new chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Jaguar will be relying heavily on its new management team. If these new management members are unable to successfully transition into their respective positions, our operations will be adversely affected. Jaguar does not maintain “key man” insurance. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to Jaguar’s success. The number of persons skilled in the acquisition, exploration and development of mining properties is limited and competition for the services of such persons is intense. In addition, as Jaguar’s business activity grows, it may require additional key financial, administrative, technical and mining personnel. The failure to attract and/or retain such personnel to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on Jaguar’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Actual capital costs, operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those estimated by Jaguar and there can be no assurance that any future development activities will result in profitable mining operations. Capital and operating costs, production and economic returns, and other estimates contained in the feasibility studies for Jaguar’s projects may differ significantly from those anticipated by Jaguar’s current studies and estimates, and there can be no assurance that Jaguar’s actual capital and operating costs will not be higher than currently anticipated. In addition, delays to construction schedules may negatively impact the net present value and internal rates of return of Jaguar’s mineral properties as set forth in the applicable feasibility studies. Increases in energy costs or the interruption of Jaguar’s energy supply may adversely affect Jaguar’s results of operations. Jaguar’s operations are energy intensive and rely upon third parties for the supply of the energy resources consumed in its operations. The prices for and availability of energy resources may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. In addition, in recent years, the price of oil has risen dramatically due to a variety of factors. Disruptions in supply or increases in costs of energy resources could have a material adverse impact on Jaguar’s financial condition and the results of operations. There can be no assurance that the interests held by Jaguar in its properties are free from defects. Jaguar’s properties may be subject to prior recorded and unrecorded agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. Title insurance is generally not available for mineral properties, and Jaguar’s ability to ensure that it has obtained a secure claim to individual mining properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Jaguar has not conducted surveys of all of the claims in which it holds direct or indirect interests. A successful challenge to the precise area and location of these claims could result in Jaguar being unable to operate on its properties as permitted or being unable to enforce its rights with respect to its properties. No assurance can be given that Jaguar’s rights will not be revoked or significantly altered to its detriment. There can also be no assurance that its rights will not be challenged or impugned by third parties. Jaguar is exposed to risks of changing political stability and government regulation in the country in which it operates. Jaguar holds mineral interests in Brazil that may be affected in varying degrees by political instability, government regulations relating to the mining industry and foreign investment therein, and the policies of other nations in respect of Brazil. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond Jaguar’s control and may adversely affect its business. Jaguar’s operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations, including those with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, various taxes (including income, mining, withholding, and indirect taxes), expropriation of property, employment, land use, water use, environmental legislation and mine safety. The regulatory environment is in a state of continuing change, and new laws, regulations and requirements may be retroactive in their effect and implementation. Jaguar’s operations may also be adversely affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, economic or other sanctions imposed by other nations, terrorism, military repression, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates and high inflation. 12 Jaguar is subject to significant governmental regulations. Jaguar’s mining and exploration activities are subject to extensive local laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, who may require operations to cease or be curtailed, or corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation of such requirements, could have a material adverse impact on Jaguar and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reductions in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Jaguar’s operations are subject to numerous governmental permits, which are difficult to obtain, and it may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits it requires, or such permits may not be timely obtained or renewed. Government approvals and permits are sometimes required in connection with Jaguar’s operations. Although Jaguar believes it has all of the material approvals and permits to carry on its operations, Jaguar may require additional approvals or permits or may be required to renew existing approvals or permits from time to time. Obtaining or renewing approvals or permits can be a complex and time-consuming process. There can be no assurance that Jaguar will be able to obtain or renew the necessary approvals and permits on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. To the extent such approvals are required and not obtained, Jaguar may be delayed or prohibited from proceeding with planned exploration, development or mining of mineral properties. Under current regulations, all exploration activities that the Company undertakes through its subsidiaries must be carried out on valid exploration licenses or prospecting permits issued by the DNPM, a department of the Brazilian federal government. The DNPM is responsible for the administration of all mining and exploration licenses, and prospecting permits. According to local regulations, Jaguar must submit a final exploration report before the expiry date of any license or permit, which is usually three years from the date of grant. However, Brazilian mining laws and regulations are currently undergoing a restructuring, and draft legislation to this effect has been submitted to the federal legislature for review and approval. The effects of this restructuring will, if adopted, be far-reaching in the ways that mining rights can be acquired and maintained in the country. Current proposals include an auction process for new licenses, minimum expenditures designed to eliminate the “warehousing” of mining permits and licenses as well as new fee schedules. They also provide for land owner participation where applicable. It is the Company’s understanding, based on consultations with local counsel, that licenses currently held in good standing will be grandfathered and not subject to certain requirements of the proposed new regime. Production from the Company’s mines results in a 1% royalty fee payment to the Brazilian government (the “CFEM”), on the value of the ore produced, in the amount of US$1.3 million for the financial year ended December 31, 2013. However, and as mentioned above, the Brazilian government is currently considering the adoption of new mining legislation which would include increases in the CFEM royalties. Environmental permits are granted for one to two year periods and all local agencies have the right to monitor and evaluate compliance with the issued permits. Any changes to the exploration activities that result in a greater environmental impact require approval. The work the Company carries out on its exploration licenses is largely restricted to drilling and ancillary activities associated with the drilling programs (i.e., low impact road construction, drilling stations). As such, the reclamation costs in respect of drilling activities are not material to the Company and are factored into the budget for exploration programs. 13 Jaguar is subject to substantial environmental laws and regulations that may increase its costs and restrict its operations. All phases of Jaguar’s operations are subject to environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste and hazardous substances, protection of natural resources and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non- compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in, or the cancellation of, Jaguar’s intended activities. There can be no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not be materially adverse to Jaguar’s operations. The properties in which Jaguar holds interests may contain environmental hazards, which are presently unknown to it and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the properties. If Jaguar’s properties do contain such hazards, this could lead to Jaguar being unable to use the properties or may cause Jaguar to incur costs to clean up such hazards. In addition, Jaguar could become subject to litigation should such hazards result in injury to any persons. Land reclamation requirements for Jaguar’s mining and exploration properties may be burdensome. Land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on companies engaged in mining operations and mineral exploration activities in order to minimize long-term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents and reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on Jaguar in connection with its mining and exploration activities, Jaguar must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. If Jaguar is required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, its financial position could be adversely affected. Jaguar may need additional capital to accomplish its exploration and development plans or to cover its expenses, and there can be no assurance that financing will be available on terms acceptable to Jaguar, or at all. Depending on gold prices and Jaguar’s ability to achieve its plans and generate sufficient operating cash flow from its existing operations, Jaguar may require substantial additional financing to accomplish its exploration and development plans as outlined or to fund any non-operating expenses that may arise or become due such as interest, tax (in Canada or Brazil) or other expenses. Failure to obtain sufficient financing, or financing on terms acceptable to Jaguar, may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on any or all of Jaguar’s properties or even a loss of an interest in a property, or even a loss of an interest in a property, or an inability to pay any of Jaguar’s non-operating expenses which could also lead to late fees or penalties, depending on the nature of the expense. The only source of funds now available to Jaguar is through production at Turmalina, Paciência and Caeté, the sale of debt or equity capital, properties, royalty interests or the entering into of joint ventures or other strategic alliances in which the funding sources could become entitled to an interest in Jaguar’s properties or projects. Additional financing may not be available when needed, especially in light of the current slowdown in lending resulting from global financial conditions. If funding is available, the terms of such financing might not be favorable to Jaguar and might involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. If financing involves the issuance of debt, the terms of the agreement governing such debt could impose restrictions on Jaguar’s operation of its business. Failure to raise capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on Jaguar’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Jaguar is exposed to risks of labor disruptions and changing labor and employment regulations. Employees of Jaguar’s principal projects are unionized, and the collective bargaining agreements between Jaguar and the unions which represent these employees must be renegotiated on an annual basis. Although Jaguar believes it has good relations with its employees and with their unions, production at Jaguar’s mining operations is dependent upon the continuous efforts of Jaguar’s employees. In addition, relations between Jaguar and its employees may be affected by changes in the scheme of labor relations that may be introduced by the relevant governmental authorities in whose jurisdictions Jaguar carries on business. Labor disruptions or any changes in labor or employment legislation or in the relationship between Jaguar and its employees may have a material adverse effect on Jaguar’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Substantially all of Jaguar’s assets are held by foreign subsidiaries that are subject to the laws of the Republic of Brazil. Jaguar conducts operations through its wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, MSOL, MTL and MCT and substantially all of Jaguar’s assets are held through such entities. Accordingly, any governmental limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between Jaguar, MSOL, MTL and MCT could restrict Jaguar’s ability to fund its operations efficiently. Any such limitations or the perception that such limitations may exist now or in the future could have an adverse impact on Jaguar’s prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Jaguar may be subject to litigation. All industries, including the mining industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit. The Company may become involved in legal disputes in the future. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular legal proceeding will not have a material effect on the Company´s financial position or results of operations. Investors may not be able to enforce civil liabilities in the United States. Jaguar is incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. Some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada. Also, almost all of Jaguar’s assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to initiate a lawsuit within the United States against these non-United States residents, or to enforce judgments in the United States against Jaguar or these persons which are obtained in a United States court and that are predicated upon civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States. Jaguar has no record of paying dividends. Jaguar has paid no dividends on its common shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors of the Company (the “Board” or the “Board of Directors”) after taking into account many factors, including operating results, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities and restrictions contained in any financing agreements. Global financial conditions may negatively impact its operations and share pricing. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility (particularly the markets for commodities, including gold) and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. Access to public financing has been negatively impacted by several factors including efforts by financial institutions to de-lever their balance sheets in the face of current economic conditions. These factors may impact the ability of Jaguar to obtain equity or debt financing in the future on terms favorable to Jaguar. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. For example, as a result of uncertainty in the global financial condition in general and the retraction of gold prices and corresponding decrease in equity values in the gold sector, on November 6, 2008, Jaguar announced that the Caeté Project had been delayed until market conditions improve. While Jaguar was able to complete an equity offering to raise the capital needed to restart development at Caeté, if it had to idle any of its producing properties or delay development of any project, there is no assurance that it would be able to restart production or development without undue delay, if at all. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, Jaguar’s operations could be adversely impacted and the trading price of its common shares may be adversely affected. The trading price for Jaguar’s common shares is volatile and has been, and may continue to be, greatly affected by the ongoing market volatility. Securities of mineral exploration and early stage base metal production companies have experienced substantial volatility in the past, often based on factors unrelated to the financial performance or prospects of the companies involved. These factors include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. Jaguar’s common share price is also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in gold prices or in its financial condition or results of operations as reflected in its quarterly earnings reports. Other factors unrelated to Jaguar’s performance that may have an effect on the price of its common shares include the following: the extent of analytical coverage available to investors concerning Jaguar’s business may be limited if investment banks with research capabilities do not continue to follow Jaguar’s securities; the lessening in trading volume and general market interest in Jaguar’s securities may affect an investor’s ability to trade significant numbers of Jaguar’s common shares; and the size of Jaguar’s public float may limit the ability of some institutions to invest in Jaguar’s securities. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of Jaguar’s common shares at any given point in time may not accurately reflect Jaguar’s long-term value. 15 Jaguar's shares are no longer listed in the US, with the result that shareholders may face reduced liquidity. The common shares of the Company were delisted from the NYSE on June 7, 2013 and were delisted from the TSX on April 30, 2014. On May 1, 2014, the common shares of the Company commenced trading on the TSXV. As a result of these changes, shares of the Company are no longer traded on any exchange in the US and the Company may face difficulty accessing additional capital via the capital markets. Furthermore, US shareholders of the Company may face limited liquidity as a result of the delisting. Jaguar's reporting status in the United States has changed and it may lose its foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. Jaguar's reporting status changed from a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the MJDS to a foreign private issuer. In order to maintain Jaguar’s current status as a foreign private issuer, a majority of its common shares must be either directly or indirectly owned by non-residents of the United States, unless Jaguar also satisfies one of the additional requirements necessary to preserve this status. Jaguar may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if a majority of its common shares are held in the United States and it fails to meet the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs under U.S. federal securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs incurred as a foreign private issuer. We expect our change to a foreign private issuer status and any future change to U.S. domestic issuer status to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. This could also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur higher costs to obtain coverage. In addition, this could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. Even though Jaguar has implemented the CCAA Plan, it will continue to face risks. The CCAA Plan was designed to reduce the amount of our indebtedness and cash interest expense and improve our liquidity as well as our financial and operational flexibility in order to generate long-term growth. Even though the CCAA Plan was consummated, Jaguar continues to face a number of risks, including certain risks that are beyond its control, such as the price of gold, changes in economic conditions, changes in our industry and regulatory changes. As a result of these risks and others, there is no guarantee that the CCAA Plan will achieve Jaguar’ stated goals. Jaguar believes that the consummation of the CCAA Plan enhanced Jaguar’s liquidity and provides it with improved financial and operating flexibility. Such belief is based on certain assumptions, including, without limitation, that Jaguar’s relationships with suppliers, customers and competitors will not be materially adversely affected by the CCAA Plan, that general economic conditions and the markets for Jaguar’s products or for the products of its partners will remain stable or improve, as well as Jaguar’s continued ability to manage costs. Should any of those assumptions prove false, the financial position of Jaguar may be materially adversely affected and Jaguar may not be able to pay its debts as they become due. As a foreign private issuer, the Company’s shareholders may have less complete and timely data. The Company is a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the Exchange Act. Equity securities of the Company are accordingly exempt from Sections 14(a), 14(b), 14(c), 14(f) and 16 of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 3a12-3 of the Exchange Act. Therefore, the Company is not required to file a Schedule 14A proxy statement in relation to the annual meeting of shareholders. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely information in connection with shareholder actions. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding reports of beneficial ownership and purchases and sales of common shares by insiders and restrictions on insider trading in the Company’s securities may result in shareholders having less data and there being fewer restrictions on insiders’ activities in its securities. The Company does, and its insiders do, make all necessary filings in Canada to provide timely, factual and transparent disclosure. 16 II. Risks Relating to the Gold Industry Gold prices are volatile and there can be no assurance that a profitable market for gold will exist. Gold prices are volatile and subject to changes resulting from a variety of factors including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, global and regional supply and demand and consumption patterns, stock levels maintained by producers and others, currency exchange fluctuations, inflation rates, interest rates, hedging activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. While the price of gold has recently been strong, there can be no assurance that gold prices will remain at such levels or be such that Jaguar’s properties can be mined at a profit. Mining is inherently risky and subject to conditions and events beyond Jaguar’s control. Mining involves various types of risks and hazards, including: ·environmental hazards; ·unusual or unexpected geological operating conditions, such as rock bursts, structural cave-ins or slides; ·flooding, earthquakes and fires; ·labor disruptions; ·industrial accidents; ·unexpected mining dilution such as occurred at Turmalina in 2010; ·metallurgical and other processing problems; and ·metal losses and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Jaguar may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at affordable premiums or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, is not generally available to Jaguar or to other companies within the mining industry. Jaguar may suffer a material adverse effect on its business if it incurs losses related to any significant events that are not covered by its insurance policies. Calculation of Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources and metal recovery is only an estimate, and there can be no assurance about the quantity and grade of minerals until mineral resources are actually mined. The calculation of mineral reserves, mineral resources and corresponding grades being mined or dedicated to future production are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which might prove to be unpredictable. Mineral Resources that are not Mineral Reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. Until mineral reserves or mineral resources are actually mined and processed, the quantity of mineral reserves or mineral resources and grades must be considered as estimates. Any material change in mineral reserves, mineral resources, grade or stripping ratio at Jaguar’s properties may affect the economic viability of Jaguar’s properties. In addition, there can be no assurance that metal recoveries in small-scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. 17 The mineral reserve estimates contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F are based upon estimates or reports published by Jaguar’s personnel and independent geologists and mining engineers, who use assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Such estimation is a subjective process, and the accuracy of any mineral reserve or mineral resource estimate depends on the quantity and quality of available data and on the assumptions made and judgments used in interpreting geological data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral reserves and mineral resources and metal recovery, many of which are beyond Jaguar’s control, and as a result, no assurance can be given as to the accuracy of such estimates or reports. Extended declines in the market price for gold may render portions of Jaguar’s mineralization uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineral reserves. A material reduction in Jaguar’s estimates of mineral reserves, or of Jaguar’s ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on Jaguar’s financial condition and results of operations. Definitional standards for reporting mineralized material differ between U.S. reporting standards and the Canadian standards used in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. We use the terms “measured mineral resources,” “indicated mineral resources” and “inferred mineral resources” in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and in the documents incorporated by reference herein to comply with reporting standards in Canada. We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the SEC does not recognize them. While we have converted a portion of these resources to proven and probable reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 reserves, U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the additional mineral deposits in these Mineral Resource categories will ever be converted into mineral reserves. These terms have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher Mineral Resource and Reserve category. In accordance with Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources cannot form the basis of a feasibility study or other economic evaluations. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part of the reported measured mineral resource, indicated mineral resource, or inferred mineral resource in this Annual Report on Form 20-F or in the documents incorporated by reference herein is economically or legally mineable. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Mineral Reporting Standards” above. 18 