ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with the Federal Government for the majority of our revenue. If our relationships with Federal Government agencies are harmed, our future revenue and operating profits would decline. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we derived almost all our revenue from Federal Government contracts, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, including approximately 81% of our revenue from contracts with the DoD and intelligence agencies during 2008 and 2007. We believe that Federal Government contracts will continue to be the source of the majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with Federal Government agencies in general, or with the DoD and intelligence agencies in particular, would cause our revenue to decline. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with Federal Government agencies are our performance on individual contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and the relationships of our key executives with customer personnel. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, our revenue and operating results could decline materially. We face intense competition from many competitors that have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability, or loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts from many other firms, including mid-tier Federal contractors with specialized capabilities and large defense and IT services providers. Competition in our markets may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors, including those formed through alliances or consolidation. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources; larger customer bases; and greater brand or name recognition than we do. These competitors could, among other things: • divert sales from us by winning very large-scale Government contracts, a risk that is enhanced by the recent trend in Government procurement practices to bundle services into larger contracts; • force us to charge lower prices; or • adversely affect our relationships with current customers, including our ability to continue to win competitively awarded engagements where we are the incumbent. If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue and our operating profits could decline. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor to us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it could divert sales from us or could force us to charge lower prices, which could cause our margins to suffer. We cannot guarantee that our estimated contract backlog will result in actual revenue. As of December 31, 2008, our estimated contract backlog totaled approximately $1,189 million, of which approximately $234 million was funded. We expect to realize approximately $344 million in revenue from backlog during 2009. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual receipt of revenue on contracts included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change; the program could be canceled; a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early; or an option that we had assumed could not be exercised. Further, while many of our Federal Government contracts require performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. Consequently, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Our estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts. However, there can be no assurances that all, or any, of such estimated contract value will be recognized as revenue. Page 14 Table of Contents Our revenue and operating profits could be adversely affected by significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the Federal Government. We depend on continued Federal Government expenditures on defense, intelligence, and other programs that we support. Accordingly, changes in Federal Government contracting policies could directly affect our financial performance. In addition, the recent change in presidential administrations, including related changes in Federal Government officials, as well as changes in Congressional majorities or in other senior Federal Government officials may negatively affect the rate at which the Federal Government purchases IT services. The overall U.S. defense budget declined from time to time during the late 1980s and the early 1990s. While spending authorizations for defense- and intelligence-related programs by the Federal Government have increased in recent years, future levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. Among the factors that could materially adversely affect us are the following: • budgetary constraints affecting Federal Government spending generally or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or available funding • changes in Federal Government programs or requirements, including the increased use of small business providers; • curtailment of the Federal Government’s use of professional services providers; • adoption of new laws or regulations; • Federal Governmental shutdowns (such as that which occurred during the Federal Government’s 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays in the Government appropriations process; • delays in the payment of our invoices by Federal Government payment offices due to problems with or upgrades to Federal Government information systems or for other reasons; • competition and consolidation in the IT industry; • general economic conditions; and • a reduction in spending or shift of expenditures from existing programs, and a failure of Congress to pass adequate supplemental appropriations to pay for an international conflict or related reconstruction efforts. These or other factors could cause Federal Governmental agencies, or prime contractors for which we are acting as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or elect not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause our revenue and operating profits to decline. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees or employees with the necessary security clearances, we might not be able to perform under our contracts or win new business. The growth of our business and revenue depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced IT skills. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. Further, obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. In a tight labor market, our direct labor costs could increase or we may be required to engage large numbers of subcontractor personnel, which could cause our profit margins to suffer. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff an engagement with personnel that the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract and we may lose revenue. In addition, certain Federal Government contracts require us, and some of our employees, to maintain security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain security clearances, or if we are unable to hire employees with the appropriate security clearances, the customer may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which if not replaced with revenue from other contracts, could seriously harm our operating results. Page 15 Table of Contents If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our customers. As we secure more work under our GWAC and agency-specific IDIQ vehicles, we expect to require an increasing level of support from subcontractors that provide complementary and supplementary services to our offerings. Depending on labor market conditions, we may not be able to identify, hire and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees to perform the task orders we expect to win. In such cases, we will need to rely on subcontracts with unrelated companies. Moreover, even in favorable labor market conditions, we anticipate entering into more subcontracts in the future as we expand our work under our GWACs. We are responsible for the work performed by our subcontractors, even though in some cases we have limited involvement in that work. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis or violate Federal Government contracting policies, laws, or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor or meet our customers’ expectations may be compromised. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability, including liability for the agency’s costs of recompetition, could damage our reputation, and could hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. We are a subcontractor to other businesses on a portion of our business. If these businesses were to encounter financial difficulty, they may fail to perform their contractual obligation. Consequently, our contractual performance and reputation, as well as our financial position could be affected. We are a subcontractor to other businesses, especially a number of small businesses, on some of our contracts or task orders. We are not in a position to control overall contract performance, and our payments are subject to the financial capabilities of the prime, not the Federal Government. If our prime contractor experiences difficulties, it may not have the financial resources to perform its contractual obligations. This failure to perform could harm our reputation and affect our financial position where we have financial exposure. Specifically, we could see an increase in bad debt expense and reserves, which could negatively affect cash flows and earnings. If we experience systems or service failure, our reputation could be harmed and our customers could assert claims against us for damages or refunds. We create, implement, and maintain IT solutions that are often critical to our customers’ operations. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. If we experience these problems, we may: • lose revenue due to adverse customer reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • suffer claims for substantial damages. In addition to any costs resulting from product or service warranties, contract performance, or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenue if customers postpone subsequently scheduled work or cancel, or fail to renew contracts. While many of our contracts limit our liability for consequential damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to our customers, we cannot assure you that these contractual provisions will be legally sufficient to protect us if we are sued. Page 16 Table of Contents In addition, our errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. As we continue to grow and expand our business into new areas, our insurance coverage may not be adequate. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation. Security breaches in sensitive Federal Government systems could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, install, and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified Federal Government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for Federal Government customers. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenue. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could cause us to lose contracts. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentionally failing to comply with Federal Government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our customers’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation and could result in a loss of contracts and a reduction in revenue. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could cause us to lose contracts or cause a reduction in revenue. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates and if we undertake acquisitions, they could increase our costs or liabilities and impair our revenue and operating results. One of our strategies is to pursue growth through acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition or finance the acquisition on terms that are satisfactory to us. Negotiations with potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions, which may increase the price of our acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully integrate companies we may acquire in the future, our revenue and operating results could suffer. Integrating such businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties (including incompatible accounting and information management systems), may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our business. These difficulties of integration may require us to coordinate geographically dispersed organizations, integrate personnel with disparate business backgrounds, and reconcile different corporate cultures. In certain acquisitions, Federal Acquisition Regulations may require us to enter into Government novation agreements, a potentially time-consuming process. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the anticipated synergies from these acquisitions, including our strategy of offering our services to customers of acquired companies to increase our revenue. We may experience increased attrition, including, but not limited to key employees of the acquired companies during and following the integration of acquired companies that could reduce our future revenue. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill, which could reduce our future reported earnings. Acquired companies may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence before the acquisition. In particular, to the extent that prior owners of any acquired businesses or properties failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws or regulations, or failed to fulfill their contractual obligations to the Federal Government or other customers, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer reputational harm or otherwise be adversely affected. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could cause us to incur additional expenses and cause a reduction in our operating profits. Page 17 Table of Contents Our acquisitions could cause unforeseen Organizational Conflicts of Interest (OCI) which could preclude us from bidding on related projects, thereby making the acquisition not as profitable as originally forecast. Additionally, the Small Business Administration (SBA) enacted new regulations as of June 30, 2007, which requires small businesses to re-certify their size standard within thirty days of any sale or merger. It is likely that any company we may look to acquire will have some component of small business contracts. These new regulations may affect our ability to retain all the contracts after the acquisition, which, in turn, may affect the value of the acquisition. Current credit market conditions could affect our access to working capital and our ability to make substantial acquisitions. A substantial acquisition or acquisitions could cause us to expand or renegotiate our current credit facility. Due to the current credit market crisis, we cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed and, if available, that such funds will be available on acceptable terms. Any such funding could require us to incur a significantly higher interest expense. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future acquisitions. Our current credit facility is an agreement with three lending institutions which are independent of each other. Should one of the lending institutions not be able to fulfill its commitments, we may not be able to access our entire credit facility, which could affect our access to working capital funding and our ability to make future acquisitions. The loss of any member of our senior management could impair our relationships with Federal Government customers and disrupt the management of our business. We believe that the success of our business and our ability to operate profitably depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management. We rely on our senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with Federal Government personnel contribute to our ability maintain strong customer relationships and identify new business opportunities. We do not have any employment agreements providing for a specific term of employment with any member of our senior management. The loss of any member of our senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, maintain good customer relations, and otherwise manage our business. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. Sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as on our administrative, operational, and financial resources. For us to continue to manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, as well as, to expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to manage our growth while maintaining our quality of service and profit margins, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims and our failure to protect our intellectual property could enable competitors to market products and services with similar features. We may become subject to claims from our employees or third parties who assert that software and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and solutions to our customers infringe upon intellectual property rights of such employees or third parties. Our employees develop much of the software and other forms of intellectual property that we use to provide our services and solutions to our customers, but we also license technology from other vendors. If our employees, vendors, or other third parties assert claims that we or our customers are infringing on their intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims. Page 18 Table of Contents In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology; obtain a license or additional licenses from our employees, vendors, or other third parties; or redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged software or technology. In addition, if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. We may be unable to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as those in the United States. Others, including our employees, may circumvent the trade secrets and other intellectual property that we own. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, and determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources with no assurance of success. The Company has substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce the Company’s operating income. As of December 31, 2008, goodwill accounted for approximately $88 million, or approximately 44%, of the Company’s recorded total assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Company reviews its goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. If goodwill becomes impaired, the Company would record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Federal Government contracts may be terminated by the Federal Government at any time, and if we do not replace them, our revenue and operating profits may be adversely affected. We derive most of our revenue from Federal Government contracts that typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods may cover more than half of a contract’s potential duration. Federal Government agencies have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts also contain provisions permitting a Federal Government customer to terminate the contract on short notice and for its convenience, as well as for our default. A decision by a Federal Government agency not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts could result in a reduction of our profitability on these contracts and significant revenue shortfalls. If the Federal Government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed allowable costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed before the termination. We cannot recover anticipated profit on terminated work. If the Federal Government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the Federal Government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Federal Government contracts contain other provisions that may be unfavorable to us. Federal Government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the Federal Government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions allow the Federal Government to terminate a contract for convenience or decline to exercise an option to renew. They also permit the Federal Government to do the following: • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; Page 19 Table of Contents • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • suspend or debar us from doing business with the Federal Government. If the Federal Government exercises its rights under any of these provisions, our revenue and operating profits could decline. Many of our Federal Government customers spend their procurement budgets through MACs under which we are required to compete for post-award orders or for which we may not be eligible to compete and could limit our ability to win new contracts and grow revenue. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many Federal Government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through agency-specific IDIQ contracts, the GSA Schedule 70 task orders, and other multiple-award and/or GWAC vehicles. These contract vehicles have resulted in increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under the relevant contract vehicle. The Federal Government’s ability to select multiple winners under multiple-award schedule contracts, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements and other agency-specific IDIQ contracts, as well as its right to award subsequent task orders among such multiple winners, means that there is no assurance that these multiple-award contracts will result in the actual orders equal to the ceiling value, or result in any actual orders. We are only eligible to compete for work (task orders and delivery orders) as a prime contractor pursuant to GWACs already awarded to us. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could reduce our revenue. If the Federal Government elects to use a contract vehicle that we do not hold, we will not be able to compete as a prime contractor. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work. There is an increasing trend in the number and duration of protests of the major contract awards we have received in the last year. The resulting delay in the start up and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Specifically, the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract, could result in increased cost and reduced profitability. In addition, most Federal Government contract awards are subject to protest by competitors. If specified legal requirements are satisfied, these protests require the Federal Government agency to suspend the contractor’s performance of the newly awarded contract pending the outcome of the protest. These protests could also result in a requirement to resubmit bids for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. Additionally, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which took effect on May 27, 2008, now allows bidders to protest task order awards under GWAC and agency-specific IDIQ contracts more than $10 million. Previously, many GWAC and agency-specific IDIQ contract vehicles prohibited protests on task order awards. The change will not only potentially increase the number of protests on GWAC and agency-specific IDIQ task orders, but also it removes one of the benefits to our customers for using these vehicles. Each of our contract types involves the risk that we could underestimate our costs and incur losses. We enter into three types of Federal Government contracts for our services: time-and-materials, cost-plus and fixed-price. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 45%, 22%, and 33% of our revenue from time-and-materials, cost-plus and fixed-price contracts, respectively. If we acquire other businesses, our contract mix could change significantly, depending on the size and contract mix of the acquired businesses. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of performance, which may result in a reduced profit or a loss on the contract for us. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume minimal financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because we only assume the risk of performing those Page 20 Table of Contents contracts at negotiated hourly rates. Under cost-plus contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. To the extent that actual costs incurred in performing a cost-plus contract are within the contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price. Compared to time-and-materials and cost-plus contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of cost overruns. Because we assume the most risk for cost overruns and contingent losses on fixed-price contracts, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our risk of suffering losses. Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of Federal Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on us. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations, and agency regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of Federal Government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based Federal Government contracts; and • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data. Moreover, we are subject to industrial security regulations of the DoD and other Federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners’ access to classified information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control, or influence, our Federal Government customers could terminate or decide not to renew our contracts, and our ability to obtain new contracts could be impaired. The Federal Government may revise its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The Federal Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to GSA contracts, GWACs or other Government-wide contracts, or adopt new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain social or other policy objectives. In addition, the Federal Government may face restrictions from new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from Government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the Federal Government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or contracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are up for recompetition bids. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement, and as a result, could harm our operating results. A preference for minority-owned, small and small-disadvantaged businesses could affect our ability to be a prime contractor on certain governmental procurements. As a result of the SBA set-aside program, the Federal Government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small or small-disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may affect our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. Page 21 Table of Contents We derive significant revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive procurement process, which may require significant upfront bid and proposal costs that could negatively affect our operating results. We derive significant revenue from Federal Government contracts that are awarded through a competitive procurement process. We expect that most of the Federal Government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive processes. Competitive procurements impose substantial costs and present a number of risks, including the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us and could reduce our profitability. Unfavorable Federal Government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions and could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers and impair our ability to win new contracts. The Federal Government, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The DCAA reviews a contractor’s internal control system and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems, and the contractor’s compliance with such policies. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Adverse findings in a DCAA audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue and profit. If a Federal Government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and competitive position if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If our reputation or relationship with Federal Government agencies were impaired, or if the Federal Government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and operating profit would decline. Other Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our Class A common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section. In the past, securities class action litigation has, at times, been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenue and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • fluctuations in revenue recognized on contracts; • variability in demand for our services and solutions; • commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; Page 22 Table of Contents • timing of award or performance incentive-fee notices; • timing of significant bid and proposal costs; • timing of acquisition activities and the expensing of acquisition-related costs; • variable purchasing patterns under the GSA Schedule 70 task orders, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements, and other agency-specific IDIQ contracts; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, and joint ventures; • strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • changes in the extent to which we use subcontractors; • the volume of product orders placed under our NETCENTS contract or other material related purchases under our contracts; • seasonal fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; and • Federal Government shutdowns or temporary facility closings. Reductions in revenue in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability during that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses is fixed in the short term. We may incur significant operating expenses during the startup and early stages of large contracts and may not be able to recognize corresponding revenue during that same quarter. We also may incur additional expenses when contracts expire, are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from Federal Government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of Government budgets to gain Congressional and administration approval in a timely manner. The Federal Government’s fiscal year ends September 30. If a Federal budget for the next Federal fiscal year has not been approved by that date in each year, our customers may have to suspend engagements that we are working on until a budget has been approved. Any such suspensions may reduce our revenue during the fourth quarter of that year or the first quarter of the subsequent year. The Federal Government’s fiscal year-end can also trigger increased purchase requests from customers for equipment and materials. Any increased purchase requests we receive as a result of the Federal Government’s fiscal year-end would serve to increase our third-or fourth-quarter revenue but will generally decrease profit margins for that quarter, as these activities generally are not as profitable as our typical offerings. Mr. Narang, our founder, Chairman and CEO, controls the Company, and his interests may not be aligned with yours. As of February 17, 2009, Mr. Narang, our founder, Chairman and CEO, through his beneficial ownership of 5,200,000 shares of our Class B common stock and 398,946 shares of our Class A common stock, owns or controls 87% of the combined voting power and 42% of the outstanding shares of the common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Narang will control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As long as Mr. Narang beneficially owns the majority of the voting power of our common stock, he will have the ability—without the consent of our public stockholders—to elect all members of our board of directors and to control our management and affairs. Mr. Narang’s voting control may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving a change in control, including proxy contests, tender offers, mergers, or other purchases of the capital stock of the Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for sale by Mr. Narang, which could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. As of February 17, 2009, Mr. Narang beneficially owns 5,200,000 outstanding shares of Class B common stock and 398,946 shares of Class A common stock. Mr. Narang may, at his discretion, sell these shares in the public market, subject to applicable volume restriction and manner of sale requirements imposed on affiliates under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if Mr. Narang sells them or is perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Page 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 