ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. The global economic downturn resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, resulting in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues has had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. The continuation of the global economic downturn may continue to adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Primarily as a result of the global economic downturn, revenue decreased by $591.3 million during 2009 as compared to 2008. Our Americas revenue declined $192.1 million during 2009 compared to 2008, attributable to decreases in poster and bulletin revenues associated with cancellations and non-renewals from major national advertisers. Our International outdoor revenue also declined $399.2 million primarily as a result of challenging advertising markets and the negative impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, we performed an interim impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2008, and again in the second quarter of 2009, primarily on our indefinite-lived assets and goodwill and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $3.2 billion and $812.4 billion, respectively. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and utilized appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of our licenses, billboard permits and reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If future results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to further impairment charges in the future. Our restructuring program may not be entirely successful. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we commenced a restructuring program targeting a reduction in fixed costs through renegotiations of lease agreements, workforce reductions, the elimination of overlapping functions and other cost savings initiatives. The program has resulted in restructuring and other expenses, and we may incur additional costs pursuant to the restructuring program in the future. No assurance can be given that the restructuring program will achieve the anticipated cost savings in the timeframe expected or at all, or for how long any cost savings will persist. In addition, the restructuring program may be modified or terminated in response to economic conditions or otherwise. To service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures for display construction or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control, which may prevent us from securing sufficient cash to meet these needs. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will also depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flow from operations, cash on hand and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, or attempt to obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of indebtedness debt on or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing indebtedness and other future indebtedness may limit our ability to pursue these alternatives. 14 Table of Contents The Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes, Clear Channel Communications’ Bank Credit Facility (of which the Company is a Restricted Subsidiary) and the Master Agreement with Clear Channel Communications impose restrictions on our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities. The Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes, Clear Channel Communications’ Bank Credit Facility and Master Agreement with Clear Channel Communications include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • repurchase our stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale leaseback transactions; • dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • merge or consolidate. In addition, the indentures governing the Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes require us to prepay it in full upon a change in control (as defined in the note), and, upon asset sales, subject to certain exceptions, to prepay the note in the amount of excess proceeds received from such asset sales. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the holders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. The existence of these restrictions limits our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities, including our ability to grow and increase our revenue or respond to competitive changes. The following is a discussion of our sources of capital: • Certain of our International subsidiaries may borrow against a $150.0 million sub-limit included in Clear Channel Communications’ $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, to the extent Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is in compliance with its covenants under the credit facility. On February 6, 2009, Clear Channel Communications borrowed the remaining availability under its $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, including the remaining availability under the $150.0 million sub-limit. Our international subsidiaries have borrowed $30.0 million against the $150.0 million sub-limit. • As part of the day-to-day cash management services provided by Clear Channel Communications, we maintain accounts that represent net amounts due to or from Clear Channel Communications, which is recorded as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet. The accounts represent the net of the balances on our revolving promissory note issued by us to Clear Channel Communications and the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us, each in the face amount of $1.0 billion, or if more or less than such amount, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all advances. Clear Channel Communications is not required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Our claim in relation to cash transferred from our concentration account is on an unsecured basis and is limited to the balance of the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications with respect to the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel 15 Table of Contents Communications to us. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the asset recorded in “Due from Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet was $123.3 million and $431.6 million, respectively. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by certain variables which are not in our control. Certain variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenue, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees, or profit margins include: • unfavorable economic conditions, both general and relative to the outdoor advertising and all related industries, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence, or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective; • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or which may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising alternatives than what we currently offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies, including changes to restrictions on rebuilding non-conforming structures, which could restrict the advertising media which we employ, or changes that restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media, or from advertising at all. We are dependent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain management and key employees. Our business is dependent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management group and other key employees, including local market managers. Many of our management team have been with the Company for a significant period of time. Certain members of our senior management have recently left the Company or changed their role within the Company. Although we have hired new executive officers, if we are unable to hire new employees to replace these senior managers or are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining other key employees, our business could be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the outdoor advertising industry. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising and sales revenues. Our advertising properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other outdoor advertising companies, as well as with other media, such as radio, newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, satellite radio and Internet based media, within their respective markets. Market shares are subject to change, which could have the effect of reducing our revenue in that market. Our competitors may develop services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments. An increased level of competition for advertising dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. 16 Table of Contents Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations. As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, we must comply with various foreign, Federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations. United States Federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on the 306,000 miles of Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems. The HBA regulates the size and location of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs, and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by Federal, state and local governments. From time to time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures, and also permitted non-conforming structures to be rebuilt by third parties. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement, condemnation and amortization. Amortization is the attempted forced removal after a period of years of legal but non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built, but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such billboards. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads and generally prohibited along non-controlled roads. Amortization has, however, been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where provided by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. For example, recent court rulings have upheld regulations in the City of New York that may impact the number of displays we have in certain areas within the city. Although we believe that the number of our billboards that may be subject to removal based on alleged noncompliance is immaterial, from time to time we have been required to remove billboards for alleged noncompliance. Such regulations and allegations have not had a material impact on our results of operations to date, but if we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification, or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our operating results could suffer. A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including taxes, fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. In addition, a number of jurisdictions, including the City of Los Angeles, have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the installation of new digital billboards. While these controls have not had a material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect states and local governments to continue these efforts. The increased imposition of these controls and our inability to overcome any such regulations could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be adversely affected. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry varies by region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter and 17 Table of Contents language of out-of-home displays. For instance, the United States and most European Union countries, among other nations, have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenue, International client base and overall financial condition. Capital requirements necessary to implement strategic initiatives could pose risks. The purchase price of possible acquisitions, capital expenditures for deployment of digital billboards and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional indebtedness or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the strategic opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional restrictions on outdoor advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products. Out-of-court settlements between the major United States tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other United States territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Other products and services may be targeted in the future, including alcohol products. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenue from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. Doing business in foreign countries creates certain risks not found in doing business in the United States. Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found in doing business in the United States. The risks of doing business in foreign countries that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • hostility from local populations; • the adverse effect of currency exchange controls; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; • investment restrictions or requirements; • expropriations of property; • the potential instability of foreign governments; • the risk of insurrections; • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • foreign exchange restrictions; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; 18 Table of Contents • changes in taxation structure; and • changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations. In addition, because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenue from our International operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the United States dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk Management — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms. Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging from three to 20 years and have revenue share and/or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results. The lack of availability of potential acquisitions at reasonable prices could harm our growth strategy. Our strategy is to pursue strategic opportunities and to optimize our portfolio of assets. We face competition from other outdoor advertising companies for acquisition opportunities. The purchase price of possible acquisitions could require the incurrence of additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing at all, or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the acquisition opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forgo that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable in economic downturns, including in the current downturn, and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional equity financing could result in dilution to our shareholders. Future transactions could pose risks. We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: • certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • to successfully manage our large portfolio of outdoor advertising and other properties, we may need to: ¡ recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired companies will continue to work for us and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and ¡ expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired properties, because failure to do so may cause us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management; • entry into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; • we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; and 19 Table of Contents • we may lose key employees of acquired companies. Additional acquisitions by us may require antitrust review by Federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, the Federal Trade Commission or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional outdoor advertising properties in any market where we already have a significant position. The DOJ actively reviews proposed acquisitions of outdoor advertising properties. In addition, the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions will apply if we acquire international outdoor advertising properties. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks. The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents, or similar events may substantially decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease our revenue or expose us to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks, or similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies of the United States and other foreign countries where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications Our historical financial information prior to the IPO is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical combined financial information prior to the IPO included in this Annual Report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent publicly traded company during the periods presented or those results we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Our historical combined financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Clear Channel Communications. • Our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically have been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Clear Channel Communications. Subsequent to the IPO, Clear Channel Communications is not required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Clear Channel Communications, we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We may incur debt on terms and at interest rates that will not be as favorable as those generally enjoyed by Clear Channel Communications. • We are obligated to continue to use the services of Clear Channel Communications under the Corporate Services Agreement until such time as Clear Channel Communications owns less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, or longer for certain information technology services, and, in the event our Corporate Services Agreement with Clear Channel Communications terminates, we may not be able to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us until such time or in a timely manner or on comparable terms. • Pursuant to a cash management arrangement, substantially all of the cash generated from our domestic Americas operations is transferred daily into accounts of our parent company, Clear Channel Communications (after satisfying the funding requirements of the Trustee Account), where funds of ours and of Clear Channel Communications may be commingled. These amounts are evidenced by a revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us. We do not have a commitment from Clear Channel Communications to advance funds to us, and we have no access to the cash transferred from us to Clear Channel Communications. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications. In such event, we would be treated the same as other unsecured creditors of Clear 20 Table of Contents Channel Communications and, if we were not entitled to the cash previously transferred to Clear Channel Communications, or could not obtain such cash on a timely basis, we could experience a liquidity shortfall. Because Clear Channel Communications controls substantially all of the total voting power of our common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of December 31, 2009, Clear Channel Communications indirectly owned all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 20 votes and each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to 1 vote on all matters on which shareholders are entitled to vote. As a result, Clear Channel Communications controlled approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock. For so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election of all members of our Board of Directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock, if applicable, and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Clear Channel Communications will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control. Because Clear Channel Communications’ interests as our controlling shareholder may differ from other shareholders’ interests, actions taken by Clear Channel Communications with respect to us may not be favorable to all shareholders. We have entered into a Master Agreement, a Corporate Services Agreement, a Trademark License Agreement and a number of other agreements with Clear Channel Communications setting forth various matters governing our relationship with Clear Channel Communications while it remains a significant shareholder in us. These agreements govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and allow Clear Channel Communications to retain control over, among other things, our continued use of the trademark “Clear Channel,” the provision of corporate services to us, our cash management and our ability to make certain acquisitions or to merge or consolidate or to sell all or substantially all our assets. The rights of Clear Channel Communications under these agreements may allow Clear Channel Communications to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other shareholders may consider favorable. We are not able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Clear Channel Communications is now owned indirectly by CC Media Holdings. Three of our directors serve as directors of CC Media Holdings. Three of our other directors are affiliated with CC Media Holdings and its shareholders. In addition, four of our executive officers serve as executive officers of CC Media Holdings. For as long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it has the ability to direct the election of all the members of our Board of Directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of CC Media Holdings or service as a director or officer of both CC Media Holdings and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services 21 Table of Contents rendered to us by Clear Channel Communications, (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity, (iii) employee retention or recruiting or (iv) our dividend policy. • Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Clear Channel Communications or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Clear Channel Communications and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our Board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. • Intercompany agreements. We have entered into certain agreements with Clear Channel Communications pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we reimburse Clear Channel Communications on a cost basis. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Clear Channel Communications for certain of our businesses. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us, we are contractually obligated to utilize the services of the chief executive officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Executive Officer and the chief financial officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Financial Officer until Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, or we provide Clear Channel Communications with six months prior written notice of termination. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. If Clear Channel Communications engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Clear Channel Communications will have no obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the other hand. The policy provides that if Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity. It also provides that if one of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer. If one of our officers or directors, who also serves as a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings, learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the director or officer will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of Clear Channel Communications’ actions with respect to that corporate opportunity. This policy could result in Clear Channel Communications having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and Clear Channel Communications have an interest. 22 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that may not provide as many protections as those afforded to shareholders of other companies. Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, and we are a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we may elect to utilize certain exemptions under the NYSE standards that free us from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements (i) that a majority of the Board of Directors consists of independent directors, (ii) that we have a Nominating and Governance Committee, and that such Committee be composed entirely of independent directors and governed by a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (iii) that we have a Compensation Committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (iv) for an annual performance evaluation of the Compensation Committee. We intend to continue to utilize certain of these exemptions and, as a result, we may not create or maintain a Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee, if created, and the Compensation Committee may not consist entirely of independent directors, and our Board of Directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We do not have control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel Communications. For so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our common stock, we and certain of our subsidiaries will be included in Clear Channel Communications’ consolidated group for U.S. Federal income tax purposes for all pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings’ consolidated group for post-merger periods. In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications for pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings for post-merger periods or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we pay to Clear Channel Communications the amount of Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes which we would be required to pay to the relevant taxing authorities if we and our subsidiaries filed combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns and were not included in the consolidated, combined or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries. In addition, by virtue of its controlling ownership and the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications effectively controls all of our tax decisions. The Tax Matters Agreement provides that Clear Channel Communications has the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to us, to file all income tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Clear Channel Communications under the Tax Matters Agreement. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us. For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications is able to choose to contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Clear Channel Communications and detrimental to us. Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax Matters Agreement, Federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Clear Channel Communications or other members of the group fail to make any United States Federal income tax payments required by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries for Federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings shareholders, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for its tax-related liabilities in certain circumstances. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings shareholders in a distribution intended to be tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Code, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear 23 Table of Contents Channel Communications and its affiliates against any and all tax-related liabilities if such a spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) due to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement. If neither we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement for any such spin-off not being tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, we and Clear Channel Communications have agreed to each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure of such a spin-off to so qualify. The terms of our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications may be more favorable than we will be able to obtain from an unaffiliated third party, and we may be unable to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms. We and Clear Channel Communications entered into a Corporate Services Agreement. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates agree to provide us with corporate services, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, executive officer services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services and procurement and sourcing support. We negotiated these arrangements with Clear Channel Communications in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. Although Clear Channel Communications is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the term of the Corporate Services Agreement, we cannot assure you these services will be sustained at the same level after the expiration of that agreement, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the amount we pay Clear Channel Communications for the services will be as favorable to us as that which may be available for comparable services provided by unrelated third parties. Other agreements with Clear Channel Communications also govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and provide for the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations. The agreements also contain terms and provisions that may be more favorable than terms and provisions we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. If Clear Channel Communications ceases to provide services to us pursuant to those agreements, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase. Any deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications could adversely affect our access to the credit markets and increase our borrowing costs. For so long as Clear Channel Communications maintains significant control over us, a deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications, could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs or impairing our access to the capital markets because of our reliance on Clear Channel Communications for availability under our “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account and its revolving credit facility. To the extent we do not pass on our increased borrowing costs to our clients, our profitability, and potentially our ability to raise capital, could be materially affected. Also, until the first date Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, pursuant to the Master Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications, Clear Channel Communications will have the ability to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, among other limitations, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to grow our business. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our stock ownership by Clear Channel Communications, provisions in our agreements with Clear Channel Communications and our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other shareholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares of Class A common stock. For as long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party. As a controlled company, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that our Board of Directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for shareholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our shareholders by written consent. Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on shareholder action by written consent, only become effective once Clear Channel Communications no longer controls us. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to Clear Channel Communications while it retains at least 15% or more of our Class B common stock. Although we believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our high vote Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings shareholders and such shares do not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or other transfer subsequent to such distribution, the voting rights of our Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. In connection with any distribution of shares of our Class B common stock to CC Media Holdings’ common shareholders in a spin-off, Clear Channel Communications may elect in its sole discretion whether our Class B common stock so distributed will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon a transfer or sale by the recipient subsequent to the spin-off or whether the Class B common stock will continue as high vote Class B common stock after the distribution. In the event the Class B common stock does not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or transfer subsequent to a spin-off, the voting rights of Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. Therefore, the holders of our Class B common stock will continue to be able to direct the election of all the members of our Board of Directors and exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. Future sales or distributions of our shares by Clear Channel Communications could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock. Clear Channel Communications may sell all or part of the shares of our common stock it owns or distribute those shares to the CC Media Holdings shareholders, including pursuant to demand registration rights described in the Registration Rights Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications. Sales or distributions by Clear Channel Communications of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or to the CC Media Holdings shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. Clear Channel Communications has advised us it currently intends to continue to hold all of our common stock it owns. However, Clear Channel Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. Consequently, we cannot assure you Clear Channel Communications will maintain its ownership of our common stock. We currently do not pay dividends on our Class A common stock. To date, we have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends should we seek to do so in the future. We are a holding company with no independent 25 Table of Contents operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. We therefore are dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our senior notes contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we elect not to pay dividends in the future or are prevented from doing so, the price of our Class A common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment. This appreciation may not occur. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including without limitation, our future operating and financial performance and availability of capital resources and the terms thereof. Statements expressing expectations and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance. There can be no assurance, however, that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including: • risks associated with the global economic crisis and its impact on capital markets and liquidity; • the impact of the global economic downturn, which has adversely affected advertising revenues across our businesses and other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • our restructuring program may not be entirely successful; • the impact of the geopolitical environment; • our ability to integrate the operations of recently acquired companies; • shifts in population and other demographics; • industry conditions, including competition; • fluctuations in operating costs; • technological changes and innovations; • changes in labor conditions; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; • capital expenditure requirements; • the outcome of pending and future litigation settlements; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of leverage on our financial position and earnings; • taxes; • access to capital markets and borrowed indebtedness; • the impact of the above and similar factors on Clear Channel Communications, our primary direct or indirect external source of capital; and • certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 26 Table of Contents This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not intended to be exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 