Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Throughout this report, references to the "Company," "we" and "our" refer to Crocs, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Statements in this Form 10-K (or otherwise made by us or on our behalf) contain various forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the "Securities Act", and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the "Exchange Act," which represent our management's beliefs and assumptions concerning future events. When used in this document and in documents incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding financial forecasts or projections and our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "plans," or similar language. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements including risks such as "our limited operating history," "our significant recent expansion," "changing fashion trends," "our reliance on market acceptance of the small number of products we sell," "our ability to develop and sell new products," "our limited manufacturing capacity and distribution channels," "our reliance on third party manufacturing and logistics providers for the production and distribution of our products," "our reliance on two vendors for certain raw materials," "our management and information systems infrastructure," "our ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights," "the effect of competition in our industry," "the effects of seasonality on our sales," "our ability to attract, assimilate and retain management talent," and other similar statements. It is routine for our internal projections and expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year progresses, and, therefore, it should be clearly understood that the internal projections, beliefs and assumptions on which we base our expectations may change prior to the end of each quarter or year. Although these expectations may change, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should understand that many important factors, in addition to those discussed or incorporated by reference in this report, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could affect our results include, in addition to others not described in this report, those described in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of this report. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events discussed in this report might not occur. PART I ITEM I. Business Overview We are a rapidly growing designer, manufacturer, distributor, worldwide marketer and brand manager of footwear for men, women, and children. We design and sell a broad offering of footwear, apparel, gear and accessories that utilize our proprietary closed cell-resin, called Croslite. In the past several years, we realized high demand for our Croslite products, specifically, our classic Beach and Cayman models. Croslite is a unique material that enables us to produce an innovative, soft, lightweight, non-marking, slip and odor-resistant shoe. Crocs shoes combine fun colors and innovative designs to provide a new level of comfort, functionality and style in the casual lifestyle footwear category. Since the initial introduction and popularity of our Beach and Cayman models, we have expanded our Croslite products to include a variety of new styles and products and have extended our product reach through the acquisitions of new brand platforms such as Jibbitz, LLC ("Jibbitz"), Fury Hockey, 2 formerly 55 Hockey Products, Inc. ("Fury"), Ocean Minded, LLC ("Ocean Minded"), Bite, LLC ("Bite"), and through various licensing agreements. We currently sell our Crocs-branded products throughout the U.S. and in over 90 countries worldwide. We sell our products through quality domestic and international retailers and distributors and directly to end-user consumers through our webstores, Company-operated retail stores and kiosks. The broad appeal of our footwear has allowed us to market our products to a wide range of distribution channels, including department stores and traditional footwear retailers as well as a variety of specialty channels. As of December 31, 2007, our customer base domestically and internationally expanded to over 13,000 and 19,000 customer locations selling our products, respectively. Our History We were organized as a limited liability company in 1999 and began marketing and distributing footwear products in the U.S. under the Crocs brand in 2002, shortly after completing the modification of a shoe produced by Crocs Canada Inc. ("Crocs Canada"), formerly known as Foam Creations Inc., and Finproject N.A., Inc. The unique characteristics of Croslite, developed by Crocs Canada, enabled us to offer consumers an innovative shoe unlike any other footwear model then available. Initially, we targeted our products to water sports enthusiasts, but the comfort and functionality of our products appealed to a more diverse group of consumers who used our footwear for a wide range of activities. To capitalize on the broad appeal of our footwear, we expanded our sales infrastructure, strengthened our senior management team, and developed relationships with a range of retailers in the U.S. In June 2004, we acquired Crocs Canada, including its manufacturing operations, product lines, and rights to the trade secrets for Croslite. We converted to a Colorado corporation in January 2005 and reincorporated in Delaware in June 2005. Since June 2004, we have significantly expanded all aspects of our operations in order to take advantage of what we believe to be an attractive market opportunity. Product Overview Our primary product line is Crocs-branded footwear for men, women and children. In addition to our footwear products, we market a line of Crocs-branded apparel, gear and accessory items that are intended to increase awareness of our brand and our products. Since 2002 our business has grown tremendously, both organically and through acquisitions that leverage our business model. In 2006, we added: •Jibbitz, which produces unique charms specifically suited to fit into Crocs shoes; and •Fury, which produces and distributes hockey, soccer and lacrosse equipment manufactured with Croslite. In 2007, we added: •Ocean Minded, which produces sandals primarily for the beach, action and adventure market; •Bite, a manufacturer of performance shoes and sports sandals sold worldwide in five categories, including, golf, adventure, healthy lifestyle, travel and watersports; and •YOU by Crocs™, a women's fashion line that combines the comfort of Croslite with fashionable styles. We also selectively use Croslite to manufacture a variety of other non-branded products, such as spa pillows and kayak seats, which are marketed to original equipment manufacturers. 3 Footwear A key differentiating feature of our footwear products is Croslite, which is uniquely suited for comfort and functionality. We have carefully formulated Croslite to be of a density that creates a comfortable shoe with a high coefficient of friction, allowing for slip-resistant, non-marking footwear that is extremely lightweight. For example, our size large Beach model weighs approximately six ounces, which is significantly lighter than more traditional casual footwear products. Croslite softens as it warms to better conform to the wearer's feet. Croslite is a closed cell resin, which is water resistant and virtually odor-free, and allows our footwear products to be cleaned simply with water or bleach. Our business has grown significantly since we first introduced our Crocs product line in 2002 with a single model in six colors. Over the past few years we have: •Expanded our Crocs product line to 11 models in 2005, to 25 models in 2006 and over 250 models in 2007 including Ocean Minded, YOU by Crocs™ and Bite footwear models; •Introduced our SolesUnited program, the first-of-its-kind recycled footwear donation program that allows customers to give back their worn-out Crocs shoes to be recycled into new shoes which are then donated to people in need around the world. Collected worn-out Crocs shoes are sorted, cleaned, ground and manufactured into new SolesUnited recycled footwear; •Established licensing agreements with Disney, Nickelodeon, Marvel, DC Comics and Warner Bros., and introduced a limited edition line of footwear and Jibbitz charms featuring such popular characters as Cinderella, Ariel, Mickey Mouse, Sponge Bob Square Pants, Dora the Explorer, Spiderman and Batman; •Introduced our Crocs at Work line that offers Crocs shoes targeted towards healthcare and food industry professionals; •Developed our Crocs Rx line, which offers three models, the Relief, the Cloud and the Silver Cloud, targeted towards consumers who require specialized footwear that provides relief from certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, plantar pain, heel pain, metatarsalgia, achy feet and post-op conditions; and •Entered into and extended our existing collegiate licensing agreements with various colleges and universities, and our sports licensing agreements with, among others, NFL, NHL, MLB, AVP, NASCAR and more recently the Olympics, Gaelic Athletic Association and Australian football leagues. As part of our strategy of expanding into new footwear categories, we are continually designing new footwear using our in-house design team as well as recognized footwear design experts. As part of this strategy, we acquired EXO Italia ("EXO") in 2006, which expanded the capabilities of our in-house design team. EXO is based in Padova, Italy and is an Italian producer of EVA (Ethylene Vinyl Acetate) based finished products, primarily for the footwear industry. Both organically and through acquisitions, we have incorporated the benefits of Croslite with new shoe styles to introduce the following products: Ocean Minded. In January 2007, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Ocean Minded (www.oceanminded.com), a designer and manufacturer of high quality leather and EVA based sandals primarily for the beach, adventure and action sports market. Ocean Minded is headquartered in Santa Clemente, California and strives to be innovative in style and design in order to produce the most comfortable sandals in the market. In 2008, Ocean Minded will be introducing a product line that includes Croslite foot beds to provide increased comfort. As the name, "Ocean Minded" implies, the brand takes an active role in protecting the oceans and beaches through beach clean ups, supporting the Surfrider Foundation and various other environmental efforts. Ocean Minded utilizes recycled and 4 recyclable materials whenever possible and is well known in the action sports industry as a leading advocate for environmental awareness and responsibility. YOU by Crocs™. In June 2007, we introduced YOU by Crocs™ (www.youbycrocs.com), a women's fashion line that combines the comfort of Croslite with 28 designs including various boots, slides, and high heels composed of suede, smooth napa leather, metallic leather and patent leather. All 28 styles include the "Soleful™" comfort foot bed, which is manufactured with Croslite and has extra padding on the ball of the foot and heel to provide increased comfort. Bite. In July 2007, we acquired Bite (www.biteshoes.com), an adventure driven designer and manufacturer of comfortable and supportive performance shoes and sports sandals sold worldwide in five categories, including, golf, adventure, healthy lifestyle, travel and watersports. Bite shoes are designed to provide comfort when participating in activities such as golfing, running, hiking, fishing, going to the beach and everyday casual wear. Bite produces some of the lightest golf shoes in the market, golf sandals and will be introducing the Ace, the first Crocs golf shoe made of Croslite material in order to fuse comfort and sport. Footwear sales made up 90.1%, 96.5%, and 94.4% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Apparel, Accessories and Gear Apparel. In 2007, we expanded our clothing line and launched a new clothing line for boys, girls and men featuring Croslite material. We added a small amount of Croslite to the material to ensure that each piece is lightweight, durable, breathable, versatile and fade resistant. Accessories. In addition to our footwear products, we own Jibbitz (www.jibbitz.com), a unique accessory brand with colorful snap-on charms specifically suited for Crocs footwear. We acquired Jibbitz in December 2006 and have expanded the product line to include a wide variety of charms in varying shapes and sizes, with designs such as flowers, sports gear, seasonal and holiday designs, animals, symbols, letters and rhinestones. Crocs licensing agreements also extend to Jibbitz, allowing Jibbitz to create designs bearing logos and emblems of Disney, NFL, MLB, NHL, NASCAR and the Crocs collegiate line. Jibbitz designs allow Crocs consumers to personalize their footwear to creatively express their individuality. As of December 31, 2007, more than 5,500 stock keeping units (SKU's) were available to consumers for personalizing their Crocs footwear. We have also introduced several Crocs-branded accessory items that complement the styling, colors, and image of our footwear and that we believe will appeal to a similar demographic base. For example, we have developed a line of lightweight and durable backpacks and messenger bags that are marketed to a wide range of consumers, from professionals to students. The backpacks and bags incorporate bright colors, Croslite shoulder pads for comfort and various holes for Jibbitz so the bags can be personally decorated. Gear. In 2005, we developed a line of lightweight, colorful kneepads made from Croslite, which we are marketing to gardening retailers and hardware stores. In October 2006, we acquired Fury (www.furysport.com), a manufacturer of performance-driven hockey, soccer and lacrosse equipment. Fury produces and distributes hockey, soccer and lacrosse equipment that incorporates Croslite to provide odor-free, anti-bacterial protection with endurance and protection for equipment that is unique in the hockey and lacrosse equipment market. Fury's product line includes gloves, sticks, pants, shin guards and pads, as well as a wide variety of other apparel and accessories. 5 Sales and Distribution Financial information regarding our revenues, profits and total assets is included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1. Information relating to our geographic operations is included in Note 17 of our consolidated financial statements. Domestic Sales In 2007, sales in the U.S. accounted for approximately 52% of total revenues, compared to 68% in 2006 and 93% in 2005. In the U.S., we sell our products through over 13,000 customer store locations, including Company-operated kiosks and retail stores in such locations as New York, Boston, Chicago, and Maui, and through our webstores. We sell through a broad range of sporting goods and department stores, as well as through specialty retailers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. International Sales In 2007, international sales accounted for approximately 48% of total revenues in 2007, compared to 32% in 2006 and 7% in 2005. Outside of the U.S., we sell our products through over 19,000 international customer store locations, including 25 Company-operated retail stores in a variety of locations including Canada, Finland, United Kingdom, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, China and the Netherlands, as well as through our kiosks and webstores. We also sell through a broad range of retailers, similar to the retail sales channels we have established in the U.S. We occasionally utilize sales agents and buying groups in our international locations to service our retail customers. We established a direct sales presence in most major international markets, rather than relying on distributors, which we believe enables us to obtain better margins and allows us to better control our marketing and distribution. As of December 31, 2007, we established direct sales efforts in countries including, Australia, Austria, Brazil, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Wholesale and Distributor Sales In 2007, approximately 91% of our net revenues were derived from sales to our wholesale customers and distributors. Our principal wholesale customers include national and regional retail chains, department stores, sporting goods stores and specialty retailers, such as Nordstrom, Finish Line, Dicks Sporting Goods, The Sports Authority, Dillard's, The Forzani Group and Journeys. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. We believe we have established strong domestic and international retail sales channels. We use distributors in select markets where we believe such arrangements are preferable to direct sales. In markets where we use third-party distributors, these distributors purchase products pursuant to a price list and are granted the right to resell the products in a defined territory, usually a country or group of countries. Our typical distribution agreements have terms of one to four years, are terminable on 60 days' notice prior to the end of the term or on six months' prior notice at any time, and require our distributors to meet a minimum sales threshold. Our agreements with distributors do not contain contractual rights of returns or price protection features, We will accept returns for defective products, quality issues, and shipment errors on an exception basis at the sole discretion of our management. Our domestic accounts are primarily serviced through our internal sales force, which focuses on selling the appropriate mix and quantity of our products to our retail accounts. They ensure our products are displayed effectively at retail locations and educate our retailers about our Crocs brand and the quality of our products. 6 Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products, the expansion to new retail customers, and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. Retail Sales We are currently expanding our direct sales efforts to consumers. We believe that direct sales provide us with an opportunity to showcase our entire line of footwear, apparel, gear and accessory offerings, and that this strategy will serve as an important and effective means to enhance our product and brand awareness. As of December 31, 2007, we operate the following retail stores: U.S Retail Stores Crocs Kiosks 138 Crocs Retail Stores 4 Crocs Outlet Stores 6 Total 148 International Retail Stores Crocs Kiosks 36 Crocs Retail Stores 25 Total 61 Retail Stores. As of December 31, 2007, we operated 29 domestic and international retail stores. During 2007, we opened retail stores in a variety of locations including New York, Boston, Chicago, London, Finland, Canada, Australia, Japan and China. Company-operated retail stores are designed with colorful displays and allow us to effectively market our new and existing products and interact with customers in order to enhance brand awareness. We plan to continue to open additional Company-operated retail stores in the future. Kiosks. As of December 31, 2007, we operated 174 domestic and international retail kiosks located in malls and other high foot traffic areas. With bright and colorful displays, efficient use of retail space, and limited initial capital investment, we believe that kiosks are an effective outlet for marketing our products. Kiosks enable us to highlight a wide range of our products, more effectively interact with potential consumers, and enhance our brand awareness among both consumers and local retailers. We plan to continue to open and operate additional kiosk sites in select, high foot traffic locations. Internet. We currently offer our products domestically and internationally through our webstores, such as www.crocs.com and our European website www.crocs.eu. Our internet presence enables us to educate consumers about our products and brand. As we expand our international marketing efforts, we intend to create local websites targeting consumers in most major markets. Raw Materials Our proprietary closed-cell resin, Croslite, is the primary raw material used in most of our footwear, some of our accessories, and non-branded products, including spa pillows, and seats and pads for kayaks and canoes. Our material is soft and durable and is of a density that provides a high 7 coefficient of friction allowing our material to be slip-resistant and non-marking in addition to being extremely lightweight. Additionally, the closed-cell nature of Croslite makes it resistant to the bacteria and fungus that cause shoe and foot odor. We continue to invest in research and development in order to refine our materials to enhance these properties and to target the development of new properties for specific applications. Croslite is produced by compounding elastomer resins that we or one of our third-party processors purchase from major chemical manufacturers together with certain other production inputs, such as color dyes. At this time, we have identified two suppliers that produce the particular elastomer resins used in Croslite. We may, however, in the future identify and utilize materials produced by other suppliers as an alternative to the elastomer resins we currently use in the production of our proprietary material. The other raw materials we use to produce Croslite are readily available for purchase from multiple suppliers. We currently compound Croslite ourselves at our manufacturing facilities in Canada, and we contract with a third-party processor in Canada and China. To produce the subcomponents of Croslite, we engage a third-party producer in the U.S. and a third-party producer in China. We believe that our production strategy, including in-house production, for the compounding of Croslite will lower our production costs, reduce the risk of supply shortages from our third-party processors and provide us with greater production flexibility to meet changing retail demand. We will, however, continue to purchase a portion of our Croslite requirements from a third-party in accordance with the terms of our supply agreement which expires in July 2009. Manufacturing and Sourcing Our strategy is to maintain a flexible, globally diversified, low-cost manufacturing base. We have Company-operated production facilities in North America, Italy and Brazil, and we also contract with third-party manufacturers located around the world. We believe that our in-house manufacturing capabilities enable us to rapidly make changes to production, providing us with the flexibility to quickly respond to orders for high-demand models and colors throughout the year, while outsourcing allows us to capitalize on the efficiencies and cost benefits of using contract manufacturing. We believe that this production strategy will enable us to continue to minimize our production costs, increase overall operating efficiencies and shorten production and development times to better serve our retail customers. The process for manufacturing our footwear was developed over an eight year period of continual refinement to improve consistency, softness, durability, and yield. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we manufactured approximately 17% of our footwear products at our Company-operated manufacturing facilities in North America, Italy and Brazil. We obtained the remaining 83% of our footwear products from third-party manufacturers in China, Bosnia, Vietnam, Romania and the U.S. In the year ended December 31, 2007, our largest third-party supplier in China produced approximately 56% of our footwear unit volume. We have a long-term contract with our third-party manufacturer in Florida, but do not have written supply agreements with our primary third-party manufacturers in China. During 2007, we expanded our manufacturing capacities at the facilities we operate in North America and opened a new manufacturing facility in Brazil. Distribution and Logistics Once our products are manufactured, they are either shipped directly to a customer or to one of our regional distribution centers. In 2007, approximately 18% of our business was shipped from our internal and third-party manufacturers directly to the customer. The other 82% of our business was fulfilled from the 20 distribution locations strategically located throughout the world. At the end of 2007, we operated distribution centers in Australia, Brazil, California, Colorado, Canada, Finland, 8 Hawaii, the Netherlands, India, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Singapore. Our Company-operated centers had approximately 940,000 square feet of space. We also utilized third-party operated distribution centers to meet our continued growing business needs. The third-party centers were located in Canada, Colorado, Dubai, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Japan, Kansas, Korea, New Zealand, and Taiwan. These distribution centers gave us approximately 750,000 additional square feet of space. The combined total of 20 distribution locations and 1.7 million square feet of space gives us the flexibility to meet our rapidly changing business requirements and positions us to support the growth of all of our brands. In December 2007, we entered into an agreement with Manhattan Associates to provide warehouse management systems within all of our Company-operated distribution centers. The implementation of their software is scheduled to be strategically rolled-out in all locations over the next 24 months. Intellectual Property and Trademarks We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret, trade dress, and patent protection to establish, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our product designs, brand, materials, and research and development efforts, although no such methods can afford complete protection. We own the material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution and sale of all of our products, both domestically and internationally, where our products are currently either sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include the Crocs logo and design and the Crocs word mark, both of which are registered or pending registration in the U.S., the European Union, Japan, Taiwan, China and Canada among other places. We also own common law trademark registrations or pending trademark applications for Jibbitz, YOU by Crocs™, Ocean Minded, Fury, Mambaz and Bite, as well as for our proprietary material Croslite and the Croslite logo, globally. We intend to continue to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, the trademarks and copyrights we utilize today and those we develop in the future. We will also continue to aggressively police our trademarks and copyrights and pursue those who infringe, both domestically and internationally. In the U.S., our patents are generally in effect for up to 20 years from the date of the filing of the patent application. Our trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to become generic. Trademarks registered outside of the U.S. generally have a duration of 10 years depending on the jurisdiction and are also generally subject to an indefinite number of renewals for a like period upon appropriate application. We believe our trademarks are crucial to the successful marketing and sale of our products, and we intend to vigorously prosecute and defend our intellectual property rights throughout the world. We consider the formulation of Croslite used to produce our products to be a valuable trade secret. Prior to our acquisition of Crocs Canada in June 2004, Crocs Canada developed the formula for Croslite, and we believe that it did not publish or otherwise make the formula available to third parties without the protection of confidentiality or similar agreements. Post acquisition, we continue to protect the formula by using confidentiality agreements with our third-party processors and by requiring our employees who have access to the formula to execute confidentiality agreements or to be bound by similar agreements concerning the protection of our confidential information. Neither we nor Crocs Canada have attempted to seek patent protection for the formula. We are not aware of any third-party that has independently developed the formula or that otherwise has the right to use the formula in their products other than Finproject, our third-party supplier of Croslite in Italy. Under the terms of our supply agreement with Finproject, Finproject has certain limited rights to use Croslite, which were originally negotiated in connection with our purchase of Crocs Canada from Finproject's parent company. We believe the comfort and utility of our products depend on the properties achieved from 9 the compounding of Croslite and constitute a key competitive advantage for us, and we intend to vigorously protect this trade secret. We also actively combat counterfeiting through monitoring of the global marketplace. We use our employees, sales representatives, distributors, and retailers to police against infringing products by encouraging them to notify us of any suspect products and to assist law enforcement agencies. Our sales representatives are also educated on our patents, pending patents, trademarks and trade dress and assist in preventing potentially infringing products from obtaining retail shelf space. The laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the U.S., and, therefore, we may have difficulty obtaining legal protection for our intellectual property in certain jurisdictions. Seasonality Due to our significant sales growth since our inception, there is still uncertainty in the degree to which sales of our footwear products will be subject to seasonality. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we experienced higher sales growth in the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, compared to the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007, for which sales remained fairly level. We expect that our business, similar to other vendors of footwear and related merchandise, will be subject to seasonal variation. We believe many vendors that market footwear products suited for warm weather normally experience their highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year. While we have introduced footwear models that are more suitable for cold weather uses, such as the Mammoth, Endeavor, Georgie, All Terrain, Snowmini, and YOU by Crocs™ styles, we expect demand for our products, and therefore our sales, may be subject to seasonal variations and significantly impacted by weather conditions because over 70% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007 were attributable to our footwear styles more suitable for fair weather. In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new model introductions or general economic or consumer conditions. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. Backlog As of December 31, 2007, our backlog, which consists of open orders, was approximately $145.4 million compared to $74.6 million as of December 31, 2006. For a variety of reasons, including our short operating history, continued growth in customer demand for our products, the addition of new customers in each of our channels, the timing of production and shipments, seasonality, product mix of customer orders, and a shift toward shorter lead times for orders, backlog may not be a reliable measure of future sales for any succeeding period and are subject to cancellation by customers at any time. In addition, our historical cancellation experience may not be indicative of future cancellation rates. Competition The global casual footwear and apparel industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in this industry include brand awareness, product functionality, design, quality, pricing, marketing and distribution. We believe that our unique footwear designs, Croslite, and our expanding product offering and distribution network position us well in the marketplace. However, some companies in the casual footwear and apparel industry have substantially greater brand awareness, financial, distribution, and marketing resources than we currently have. Furthermore, the unique designs and resulting success of our footwear products have attracted new players in the market with imitation products that are similar to ours, and we face competition from these new market entrants. 10 Product Design and Development Our primary goal in product design and development is to create and introduce new and innovative footwear products that combine our standards of comfort, functionality, and style, and enhance the awareness of the Crocs brand. Our footwear product line is designed by a combination of our internal design and development staff supported by outside designers. By introducing outside sources to the design process, we believe that we are able to capture a variety of different design perspectives on a cost-efficient basis and anticipate trends more quickly. To expand our internal design capabilities, we acquired EXO in 2006, an Italian company that has been involved in the design of several of our new styles. We are committed to continuing to dedicate significant resources to product design and development to sustain our commitment to innovation, execute our growth strategy and drive our global brand. We develop footwear models based on what we identify as opportunities in the marketplace. Once a design has been identified and demand in the marketplace has been validated, the designs are then translated into product specifications by our developers and made into prototypes at our facilities in Canada or Italy or by one of our third-party manufacturers in China. Our designers and developers work closely with each other to develop product prototypes, test and refine products and provide quality assurance throughout the manufacturing process. Our design and development process is highly collaborative, as members of the design team frequently meet with our sales and marketing staff, production and supply managers and certain of our retail customers to further refine our products to meet the particular needs of our target market. We continually strive to improve our development function so we can bring products to market quickly and reduce costs while maintaining product quality. We spent $5.3 million, $1.8 million and $534,000 in Company-sponsored research, design and development activities for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 5,300 persons compared to 2,900 as of December 31, 2006. This included 2,022 employees in the U.S., 787 employees in Canada, 1,140 employees in Mexico, 863 employees in Asia, 252 employees in Brazil, and 236 employees in Europe. As of December 31, 2007, none of our employees were represented by a union, other than 587 of our Canadian employees who were represented by the Teamsters Union. There has never been a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Public Filings and Corporate Information Our internet address is www.crocs.com. On our website, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings on our web site are available free of charge. Also available on our web site are the charters of the committees of our board of directors, as well as our corporate governance guidelines and code of ethics. Copies of any of these documents will be provided in print to any stockholder who submits a request in writing to Integrated Corporate Relations, 450 Post Road East, Westport, CT 06880. 11 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, as well as any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Other risks not presently known to us or not presently thought to be material could also affect our business, our financial condition or results of operations. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past several years, and if we fail to manage any future growth effectively, we may experience greater difficulty in filling customer orders, declines in product quality, increases in costs or other operating difficulties. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations since inception, and we anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and new market opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, we had over 25 footwear models, which have increased to over 250 footwear models as of December 31, 2007, including Ocean Minded, YOU by Crocs™, Bite and Crocs footwear models. In addition to acquiring new brands and developing and marketing a new apparel and clothing line, over the last three years, we expanded from: •136 employees at June 30, 2004, to approximately 5,300 employees at December 31, 2007; and •$13.5 million in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2004, to $847.4 million in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2007. The expansion of the scope and nature of our business, the growth in the number of employees, customers and other third parties with whom we have relationships, and the increase in the number of facilities we use for manufacturing, distribution, and corporate operations, have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management and our information systems and resources. To manage growth in our operations, we will need to increase the number of people we employ, upgrade our existing financial and reporting systems and improve our business processes, operational systems and controls. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality or increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. The popularity of our Crocs footwear may not continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the recent past or may decline, which would have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our recent growth is substantially attributable to footwear sales, which represented approximately 90.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. We expect that footwear will constitute our principal product line for the foreseeable future. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands, preferences and fashion trends, and our footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional models that appeal to consumers. In addition, new product lines like Ocean Minded, Bite and YOU by Crocs™ may be rejected by customers. If the popularity of our footwear declines or does not expand in the future, we may experience, among other things: •lower sales; •loss of retail customers; •excess inventories; •inventory markdowns and discounts provided to retailers; 12 •deterioration of our brand image; and •lower revenues and gross and operating margins, as a result of price reductions. Given the limited history of our Crocs brand, it is especially difficult to evaluate whether our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for the growth of our business, and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our growing business. We have made significant improvements to our management information systems over the past several years, specifically to upgrade our financial reporting systems and to implement new information technology systems to better track our business, streamline our financial reporting, and improve our internal controls. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit that may result in substantial costs and could divert management's attention. Starting in November 2007, certain shareholders filed several purported shareholder class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on alleged statements made by us between July 27, 2007 and October 31, 2007. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages on behalf of the alleged class in an unspecified amount, interest, and an award of attorney's fees and costs of litigation. These actions were subsequently consolidated. The Court is currently considering motions for the appointment of lead plaintiff and lead counsel. After the Court appoints the lead plaintiff and lead counsel, an amended consolidated compliant will be filed. Thereafter, we will respond. In January 2008, plaintiffs filed a shareholder derivative action in the Colorado District Court for the City and County of Boulder alleging that certain officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, and were unjustly enriched. This derivative action purports to state a claim on behalf of the corporation. The complaint alleges that the claims arise from the same conduct as is alleged in the federal shareholder class action discussed above. We are in the process of responding. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcomes of these actions. It is possible that they could be resolved adversely to us, could result in substantial costs, and could divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may, in the future, be the target of additional proceedings, and these proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. 13 We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly, and various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of our future performance. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. Recently, multiple securities class action litigations were brought against us and similar actions are frequently brought against other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers' orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand, and if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the footwear industry, changes in consumer preferences, and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. We utilize trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, and trade dress and designs on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. We periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging another party's products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We have registered Crocs as a trademark for footwear in Aruba, Australia, the European Union, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Antilles, New Zealand, Panama, and the World Intellectual Property Office. As of December 31, 2007, we have also applied to register Crocs and the Crocs logo as trademarks in over 40 other jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. Although we believe that we have applied for trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where we are doing or intend to do business, there is a possibility that we have not applied to register the Crocs mark, the company logos, 14 the individual brand names for our products or our marketing slogans in countries where we will do business in the future. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the U.S., and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to use the Crocs name or logo, and competitors may sell products that are substantially similar to our Crocs footwear, or may produce counterfeit versions of our products, and such competing or counterfeit products could divert sales and may damage our brand image. We believe our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. From time to time, we have identified competitors selling products that are very similar in design to certain of our Crocs footwear models and that are manufactured from what may be comparable materials to our products. We believe that some of these products may infringe our intellectual property rights. Given the increased popularity of our Crocs brand, we believe there is a high likelihood that counterfeit products or other products infringing on our intellectual property rights will continue to emerge, seeking to benefit from the consumer demand for Crocs footwear. In order to protect our brand, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in the U.S. and some foreign countries. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. For example, our attempts to register Crocs and our Crocs logo as trademarks have been challenged by a large apparel company, and certain jurisdictions have rejected our attempted registration of our logo as a trademark based upon such challenge and based upon trademarks owned by the same company and at least one other large apparel company. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, or if we were required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, in our enforcement litigation against manufacturers of knock-off products, at least one manufacturer has alleged counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our patents and we expect that other defendants in the litigation may assert similar claims. As of December 31, 2007, we have applied to register Crocs and the Crocs logo as trademarks in over 40 jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. In addition, we have recently extended the scope of our trademark registrations and applications for both the Crocs mark and logo to cover non-footwear products such as sunglasses, goggles, knee pads, watches, luggage, and some of our internet sales activities. Although we believe that we have applied for trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where we are doing or intend to do business, there is a possibility that we have not applied to register the Crocs mark, the company logos, the individual brand names for our products or our marketing slogans in countries where we will do business in the future, and we have elected not to apply for trademark registrations for some marks in some jurisdictions. Furthermore, we may not obtain trademark registrations in connection with any applications that we do file and trademark protection, whether registered or common law, may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy our Crocs brand, 15 expose us to trademark liability and impair our ability to compete effectively. In addition, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We believe our success may be enhanced by our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, and therefore have elected to pursue patent protection for our products in the U.S. and other countries. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, and competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our issued patents, or our registered designs or patent applications that proceed to issuance. We cannot predict how the patent claims in our issued patents, or any patents issued from any pending or future patent application, will be construed, and such patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing, and/or marketing of competing products, or may be challenged by third parties on the basis of validity and enforceability. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information related to, among other things, the formulation of Croslite and product development, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third-party manufacturers and compounding facilities may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use to try to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may not effectively protect such intellectual property and information and may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information, or other proprietary information, others, including our competitors, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. We use in house warehousing, distribution, and fulfillment capabilities, and utilize third parties to conduct order fulfillment services for us. Any additional expenses incurred in connection with, or any disruption in the supply of our products that is caused by changes in our logistical infrastructure could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2007, we operated distribution centers in Australia, Brazil, California, Colorado, Canada, Finland, Hawaii, the Netherlands, India, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Singapore. Our Company-operated distribution centers had approximately 940,000 square feet of space. In recent periods, our third-party vendors and Company-operated warehouse, distribution, and fulfillment operations have been unable to entirely satisfy the increased demand for our products. The inability to process and deliver sufficient quantities of our products has prevented us from completely filling in a timely manner orders placed by our customers. We have in the past, and may in the future, miss key shipments to customers as a result of distribution and supply chain disruptions. Other possible interruptions which could prohibit us from timely customer deliveries could include the following: •Damage or destruction to the warehouse and distribution center used for our products due to fire, earthquake, or any other natural disaster; or •Disruptions in commercial shipping channels. In the event that we or a third-party are unable to conduct warehousing, distribution, and fulfillment activities in a cost effective, timely, and accurate manner, the distribution of our products 16 may be adversely affected, which could result in harm to our relationships with our retail customers and consumers, a reduction in demand for our products, and additional expenses to us. Because we depend on third-party manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. In the year ended December 31, 2007, third-party manufacturers produced approximately 83% of our footwear products as measured by number of units, and one such manufacturer in China produced approximately 56% of our third-party footwear products. Currently, we have footwear manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers located in the U.S., China, Bosnia, Vietnam, and Romania. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third-party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third-party manufacturers, including the third-party manufacturer that produced the majority of our footwear products in the year ended December 31, 2007, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third-party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our Company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third-party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third-party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture a portion of our Crocs products, and any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we produced approximately 17% of our footwear production at our Company-operated manufacturing facilities in North America, Brazil and Italy. The manufacturing of our products from our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as Croslite, requires the use of a complex process, and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. Additionally, we may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment, such as molds and injection molding machines. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted above with respect to our third-party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We continued to invest in our manufacturing facilities in North America, Brazil and Italy. The expansion of our Company-operated manufacturing capabilities will increase our fixed cost base, and could adversely impact our margins and results of operations in the event our sales decline or do not continue to grow. 17 We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding Croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from two suppliers. We do not have any formal purchase agreement with the providers of the elastomer resins, and we purchase these elastomer resins on a purchase order basis. If the suppliers we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of Croslite, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers, and diminished brand loyalty. Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, shipping and financing. Because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales market, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market demand for these products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We generated approximately 90.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 from sales of our footwear products, which consisted of more than 250 models, including Ocean Minded, Bite, YOU by Crocs™ and our Crocs footwear models. Sales of our classic Beach and Cayman models accounted for approximately 30% of our footwear revenues in the year ended December 31, 2007. A high portion of our Crocs footwear models are developed from the same base design as our Beach and Cayman models, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these models or related products in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on a line of footwear models that have substantial similarities, factors such as changes in consumer preferences and general market conditions in the footwear industry may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than on our competitors. In addition, other footwear companies have introduced products that are substantially similar to our footwear models, which may reduce sales of our footwear products. In the event that consumer preferences evolve away from our footwear models or from casual lifestyle footwear in general, or if our retail customers purchase similar products sold by our competitors, the resulting loss of sales, increase in inventories and discounting of our products are likely to be significant, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operations. 18 Expanding our footwear product line may be difficult and expensive, and if we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected, and we may not achieve our planned sales growth. Our growth strategy is founded primarily on the continued growth in sales of our footwear, and we intend to continue to expand the number of models offered in our footwear product line to broaden the appeal of our products to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce, including Ocean Minded, Bite and YOU by Crocs™, may not be successful with consumers, or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, we may not grow as fast as we plan, or our sales may decline, and our brand image and operating performance may suffer. Furthermore, achieving market acceptance for new products will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general, and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts. Material increases in our selling, general, and administrative expenses could adversely impact our results of operations. We may also encounter difficulties in producing new footwear models that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing products. For example, once we begin to design a new footwear model, it can take six to nine months to progress to full production because of the need to fabricate new molds and to implement modified production tooling and revised manufacturing techniques. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail distribution, we may not be able to recoup our investment in the development of new models and product lines, and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products, and we may set the prices of new models too high for the market to bear. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we introduce could impede our growth, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position, and result in long term harm to our business. Sales of our products are likely to be subject to seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Due to our significant sales growth since our inception, there is still uncertainty in the degree to which sales of our footwear products will be subject to seasonality. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we experienced higher sales growth in the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, compared to the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007, for which sales remained fairly level. We expect that our business, similar to other vendors of footwear and related merchandise, will be subject to seasonal variation. We believe many vendors that market footwear products suited for warm weather normally experience their highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year. While we have introduced footwear models that are more suitable for cold weather uses, such as the Mammoth, Endeavor, Georgie, All Terrain, Snowmini, and YOU by Crocstm styles, we expect demand for our products, and therefore our sales, may be subject to seasonal variations and significantly impacted by weather conditions because over 70% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007 were attributable to our footwear styles more suitable for fair weather. In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new model introductions or general economic or consumer conditions. 19 Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting, and any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures, and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and the independent auditors. Continued documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the ongoing course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the annual deadlines imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of such material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, such deficiencies may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on, the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. If we are forced to defend against such third-party claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time consuming litigation, which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. For example, a company has filed a lawsuit against us claiming that our Aspen model infringed its trademark rights, and that by using the Aspen name and intellectual property we committed acts of false designation of origin, trademark dilution, unfair competition and unfair or deceptive trade practices. We subsequently changed the name of our Aspen model to the Endeavor and entered into a settlement agreement with the company. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. Additionally, if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. Thus, such third-party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any such reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse affect on our business. 20 Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We require our third-party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third-party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third-party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer's actions could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and the value of our brand, and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. To expand our business we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees, including any member of our management team. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and to the success of such retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products, the expansion to new retail customers, and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. Furthermore, many of our retail customers compete with each other, and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our retail customers by selling our products to consumers via the internet and through our Company-operated kiosks and stores. If our retail customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. We face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our Crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. 21 Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors: •have significantly greater financial resources than we have; •have more comprehensive product lines than ours; •have broader market presence than we have in retail stores, or have more Company-operated retail stores then we have; •have longer-standing relationships with retailers than we have; •have a longer operating history than ours; •have greater distribution capabilities than we have; •have stronger brand recognition than we have; and •spend substantially more on product advertising and sales than we do. Our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate, and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. We may fail to successfully expand our distribution network or introduce our products internationally, and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our distribution network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: •the strength of the Crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; •our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; •our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and •our ability to successfully enter and compete in markets and territories, especially internationally, where we have little distribution experience and where our Crocs brand is not well known. If we are unable to successfully expand our distribution channels and sell our Crocs-branded products internationally, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We conduct, and in the future expect to conduct, a significant portion of our activities outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are subject to the risks of international commerce. We use third-party manufacturers located in foreign countries; we operate manufacturing facilities located in North America, Brazil and Italy; and we sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: •tariffs, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; •increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; 22 •delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; •foreign currency fluctuations, for which we do not currently engage in any material hedging transactions; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •changing economic conditions; •restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; •changes in governmental policies and regulations; •political unrest, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; •expropriation and nationalization; •difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and •difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, our manufacturing activity outside of the U.S., including the production of our products by third-party manufacturers, is subject to risks of poor infrastructure, shortages of equipment, and labor unrest, in addition to those risks noted above. Once our products are manufactured, we may also suffer delays in distributing our products due to work stoppages, strikes, or lockouts at the ports where our products arrive. Such labor disruptions could result in product shortages and delays in distributing our products to retailers. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. In addition, during 2007, we generated $407.8 million, or 48% of our revenues outside of the U.S., and in the year ended December 31, 2006, we generated approximately $112.5 million, or 32% of our revenues outside of the U.S. We expect to expand our international sales and marketing operations in the future. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. Acquisitions may be difficult to identify and successfully integrate into our business and could have other adverse consequences. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies. For example, in June 2004, we acquired Crocs Canada; in October 2006, we acquired Fury and EXO; in December 2006, we acquired Jibbitz; in January 2007, we acquired Ocean Minded; and in July 2007, we acquired Bite. We expect to consider other opportunities to acquire or make investments in other businesses and products that could enhance our manufacturing capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In the event we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be diluted. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or effectively manage the combined business following completion of the acquisition. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to any of the following factors: •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; 23 •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of the acquisition; •the potential loss of key employees; or •risks associated with entering new product lines or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operations or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. We purchase products and supplies from third parties in U.S. dollars and receive payments from certain of our international customers in foreign currencies. The cost of these products and supplies sourced overseas, and payments received from customers, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences, and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of us, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third-party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of us or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; 24 •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 