ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the information contained in this Form 10-K Annual Report, the following list of material risks and uncertainties should be carefully reviewed by our stockholders and any potential investors in evaluating our Company, our business and the market value of our common stock. Any one of these risks and uncertainties has the potential to cause material adverse effects on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results which could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements expressed by us and a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock. Refer to “Forward-Looking Statements”. There is no assurance that we will be successful in preventing the material adverse effects that any of the following risks and uncertainties may cause, or that these potential risks and uncertainties are a complete list of the risks and uncertainties facing us. Furthermore, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we are presently unaware of, or presently consider immaterial, that may become material in the future and have a material adverse effect on us. You could lose all or a significant portion of your investment due to any of these risks and uncertainties. Risks Related to our Company and Business Evaluating our future performance may be difficult since we have a limited financial and operating history, with significant negative cash flow and net losses to date. Furthermore, the success of the Company will depend ultimately on our ability to achieve and maintain profitability from our mining operations. As more fully described under Corporate Organization of ITEM 1. BUSINESS, Uranium Energy Corp. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on May 16, 2003. Since 2004 and as more fully described under General Business of ITEM 1. BUSINESS, we have been engaged in uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations on properties located in the United States and Paraguay. We commenced uranium production for the first time at our Palangana Mine in November 2010 and generated revenue from sales of uranium concentrates during Fiscal 2012. We also hold certain mineral property interests in various stages of exploration and development in the States of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming and in Paraguay. The Company has not established proven or probable reserves on any of its mineral properties. The Company has a history of significant negative cash flow and accumulated deficit since its inception to July 31, 2012 of $120.8 million. For Fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred net losses of $25.1 million, $27.4 million and $14.5 million, respectively. Although we generated revenue of $13.8 million from sales of uranium concentrates during Fiscal 2012, we do not expect to achieve profitability or develop positive cash flow from operations in the near term. Historically, we have been reliant primarily on equity financings to fund our ongoing operations and we expect this reliance to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result of our limited financial and operating history, including significant negative cash flow and net losses to date, it may be difficult to evaluate the future performance of the Company. Furthermore, the long-term success of the Company’s business including its ability to acquire additional uranium projects and continue with its exploration, development and production activities on existing uranium projects will depend ultimately on our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and to develop positive cash flow from operations. The uranium industry is capital intensive, and we will require significant additional financing to acquire additional uranium projects and continue with our exploration and development programs and mining operations on our existing uranium projects. The uranium industry is capital intensive, and we will require significant additional financing to acquire additional uranium projects and continue with our exploration and development programs and mining operations on our existing uranium projects. Without such additional financing, we will be required to curtail or abandon any one or all of these activities. 11 Historically, we have relied on equity financing as our primary source of financing. Our ongoing reliance on equity financing and its availability whenever such additional financing is required will be dependent on many factors, including but not limited to general market conditions and the market value of our common stock. We may also be required to seek other forms of financing such as joint ventures, debt financing or other arrangements. We also filed a Form S-3 “Shelf” Registration Statement that became effective September 2, 2011 which provides for the offer and sale of certain securities of the Company from time to time, at its discretion, up to an aggregate public offering of $50 million (of which approximately $22.5 million was sold in our public offering that closed on April 10, 2012). However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in securing any form of additional financing when required and on terms favorable to us. Uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations are inherently subject to many significant risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ significantly from estimated amounts. Uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations are inherently subject to many significant risks and uncertainties. Uranium exploration is frequently non-productive, in which case the uranium project may be abandoned and written-off. Furthermore, we will not be able to recover the funds that we incur on our exploration programs if we do not establish ore bodies that contain commercially recoverable uranium on our mineral projects and develop these into profitable mining operations. There is no assurance that we will be successful in establishing ore bodies that contain commercially recoverable uranium. Whether an ore body contains commercially recoverable uranium depends on many factors including, without limitation: (i) the particular attributes of the deposit such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; (ii) the market price of uranium, which may be volatile; and (iii) government regulations and regulatory requirements including, without limitation, those relating to environmental protection, permitting and land use, taxes, land tenure and transportation. We have neither established nor have plans on establishing proven and probable reserves through the completion of feasibility studies in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7 on our mineral projects on which we are currently utilizing or planning on utilizing in-situ recovery mining. Our long-term success will depend on our ability to establish ore bodies that contain commercially recoverable uranium and to develop these into profitable mining operations. Mining operations have many risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to: (i) significantly higher than expected capital costs to construct the mine; (ii) significantly higher than expected actual production costs; and (iii) mine production being below expectations. There is no assurance that any ore body that we may develop into a mine will become profitable. Uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations are subject to many risks beyond our control including, but not limited to: (i) unanticipated ground and water conditions and adverse claims to water rights; (ii) unusual or unexpected geological formations; (iii) metallurgical and other processing problems; (iv) the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; (v) lower than expected ore grades; (vi) industrial accidents; (vii) delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; (viii) delays in transportation; (ix) availability of contractors and labor; (x) government permit restrictions and regulation restrictions; (xi) unavailability of materials and equipment; and (xii) the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties; personal injury; environmental damage; delays in mining; increased production costs; monetary losses; and legal claims. If we become subject to liability, we may not be able or may elect not to insure against such risk due to high insurance premiums or other reasons. Where coverage is available and not prohibitively expensive relative to the perceived risk, we will maintain insurance against such risk, subject to exclusions and limitations. However, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will continue to be available at reasonable premiums or that such insurance will be adequate to cover any resulting liability. 12 Further exploration by our Company may not result in economically viable mining operations or yield new reserves. Exploration for uranium involves many risks and uncertainties and success in exploration is dependent on a number of factors, including the quality of management, quality and availability of geological expertise and the availability of exploration capital. Major expenses may be required to establish reserves by drilling, constructing mining or processing facilities at a site, developing metallurgical processes and extracting uranium from ore. Also, substantial expenses may be incurred on exploration projects which are subsequently abandoned due to poor exploration results or the inability to define reserves which can be mined economically. Even if an exploration program is successful and economically recoverable uranium is found, it can take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling and identification of the mineralization until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of extraction may change and uranium that was economically recoverable at the time of discovery ceases to be economically recoverable. There can be no assurance that uranium recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under onsite conditions or in production scale operations, and material changes in geological resources or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of uranium projects. We cannot assure that exploration and development programs will result in profitable commercial mining operations. The economics of developing uranium properties are affected by many factors including the cost of operations, fluctuations in the price of uranium, costs of processing equipment and such other factors as government regulations. In addition, the quantity of uranium ultimately extracted may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. We have limited production and sales history. We have limited production history. Ongoing production and commissioning of staged expansions to production may not proceed as planned, with potential for delay in the timing of targeted production and/or a failure to achieve the level of targeted production. In extreme circumstances, these potential delays or difficulties may necessitate additional funding which could lead to additional equity or debt requirements for our Company. In addition to potential delays, there is a risk that capital and/or operating costs will be higher than expected or there will be other unexpected changes in variables upon which expansion and commissioning decisions were made. These potential scope changes and/or cost overruns may lead also to additional funding requirements. Our activities may be affected by numerous other factors beyond our control. Mechanical failure of our operating plant and equipment, and general unanticipated operational and technical difficulties may adversely affect our operations. Operating risks beyond our control may expose our Company to uninsured liabilities. The business of mining, exploration and development is subject to a variety of risks and hazards such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in damage to and destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage and legal liability. In addition, we have a limited history of selling our uranium product and inventories. We may experience difficulty in marketing and/or selling our uranium product and inventories which may adversely impact our revenues and operating cash flows. Acquisitions that we may make from time to time could have an adverse impact on us. From time to time, we examine opportunities to acquire additional mining assets and businesses. Any acquisition that we may choose to complete may be of a significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. Our success in our acquisition activities depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition, and integrate the acquired operations successfully with those of our Company. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, there may be a significant change in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and established the purchase price or exchange ratio; a material ore body may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise, and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. In the event that we choose to raise debt capital to finance any such acquisition, our leverage will be increased. If we choose to use equity as consideration for such acquisition, existing shareholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, we may choose to finance any such acquisition with our existing resources. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. 13 The uranium industry is subject to numerous stringent laws, regulations and standards, including environmental protection laws and regulations. If any changes occur that would make these laws, regulations and standards more stringent, it may require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated or cause substantial delays, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations are subject to numerous stringent laws, regulations and standards at the federal, state, and local levels governing permitting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection and reclamation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. Our compliance with these requirements requires significant financial and personnel resources. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction, may change or be applied or interpreted in a manner which may also have a material adverse effect on our operations. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency or special interest group, may also have a material adverse effect on our operations. Uranium exploration and development programs and mining operations are subject to stringent environmental protection laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels. These laws and regulations, which include permitting and reclamation requirements, regulate emissions, water storage and discharges and disposal of hazardous wastes. Uranium mining operations are also subject to laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of mining methods. Various permits from governmental and regulatory bodies are required for mining to commence or continue, and no assurance can be provided that required permits will be received in a timely manner. Our compliance costs including the posting of surety bonds associated with environmental protection laws and regulations and health and safety standards have been significant to date, and are expected to increase in scale and scope as we expand our operations in the future. Furthermore, environmental protection laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future, and compliance with such changes may require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated or cause substantial delays, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. To the best of our knowledge, our operations are in compliance, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, regulations and standards. If we become subject to liability for any violations, we may not be able or may elect not to insure against such risk due to high insurance premiums or other reasons. Where coverage is available and not prohibitively expensive relative to the perceived risk, we will maintain insurance against such risk, subject to exclusions and limitations. However, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will continue to be available at reasonable premiums or that such insurance will be adequate to cover any resulting liability. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses. Our exploration and mining activities are dependent upon the grant of appropriate authorizations, licences, permits and consents, as well as continuation of these authorizations, licences, permits and consents already granted, which may be granted for a defined period of time, or may not be granted or may be withdrawn or made subject to limitations. There can be no assurance that all necessary authorizations, licences, permits and consents will be granted to us, or that authorizations, licences, permits and consents already granted will not be withdrawn or made subject to limitations. 14 Major nuclear incidents may have adverse effects on the nuclear and uranium industries. The nuclear incident that occurred in Japan in March 2011 had significant and adverse effects on both the nuclear and uranium industries. If another nuclear incident were to occur, it may have further adverse effects for both industries. Public opinion of nuclear power as a source of electricity generation may be adversely affected, which may cause governments of certain countries to further increase regulation for the nuclear industry, reduce or abandon current reliance on nuclear power or reduce or abandon existing plans for nuclear power expansion. Any one of these occurrences has the potential to reduce current and/or future demand for nuclear power, resulting in lower demand for uranium and lower market prices for uranium, adversely affecting the Company’s operations and prospects. Furthermore, the growth of the nuclear and uranium industries is dependent on continuing and growing public support of nuclear power as a source of electricity generation. The marketability of uranium concentrates will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control which may result in our inability to receive an adequate return on our invested capital. The marketability of uranium concentrates produced by us will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include macroeconomic factors, fluctuations in the market price of uranium, governmental regulations, land tenure and use, regulations concerning the importing and exporting of uranium and environmental protection regulations. The future effects of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but any one or a combination of these factors may result in our inability to receive an adequate return on our invested capital. The uranium industry is highly competitive and we may not be successful in acquiring additional projects. The uranium industry is highly competitive, and our competition includes larger, more established companies with longer operating histories that not only explore for and produce uranium, but also market uranium and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. Due to their greater financial and technical resources, we may not be able to acquire additional uranium projects in a competitive bidding process involving such companies. Additionally, these larger companies have greater resources to continue with their operations during periods of depressed market conditions. We hold mineral rights in foreign jurisdictions which could be subject to additional risks due to political, taxation, economic and cultural factors. We hold certain mineral rights located in Paraguay through the acquisition of Piedra Rica Mining S.A. and Transandes Paraguay S.A., both companies incorporated in Paraguay. Operations in foreign jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, especially in developing countries, may be subject to additional risks as they may have different political, regulatory, taxation, economic and cultural environments that may adversely affect the value or continued viability of our rights. These additional risks include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in governments or senior government officials; (ii) changes to existing laws or policies on foreign investments, environmental protection, mining and ownership of mineral interests; (iii) renegotiation, cancellation, expropriation and nationalization of existing permits or contracts; (iv) foreign currency controls and fluctuations; and (v) civil disturbances, terrorism and war. In the event of a dispute arising at our foreign operations in Paraguay, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States or Canada. We may also be hindered or prevented from enforcing our rights with respect to a government entity or instrumentality because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity. Any adverse or arbitrary decision of a foreign court may have a material and adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. There is no guarantee that title to our mineral property interests will not be challenged. Although we have taken reasonable measures to ensure proper title to our interests in mineral properties and other assets, there is no guarantee that the title to any of such interests will not be challenged. No assurance can be given that we will be able to secure the grant or the renewal of existing mineral rights and tenures on terms satisfactory to us, or that governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate will not revoke or significantly alter such rights or tenures or that such rights or tenures will not be challenged or impugned by third parties, including local governments, aboriginal peoples or other claimants. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. A successful challenge to the precise area and location of our claims could result in us being unable to operate on our properties as permitted or being unable to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. 15 Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to legal proceedings. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to numerous regulatory investigations, civil claims, lawsuits and other proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. The results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, the difficulty of predicting decisions of regulators, judges and juries and the possibility that decisions may be reversed on appeal. There can be no assurances that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business and/or financial position. We depend on certain key personnel, and our success will depend on our continued ability to retain and attract such qualified personnel. Our success is dependent on the efforts, abilities and continued service of certain senior officers and key employees and consultants, especially Amir Adnani, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Harry Anthony, our Chief Operating Officer. A number of our key employees and consultants have significant experience in the uranium industry. A loss of service from any one of these individuals may adversely affect our operations, and we may have difficulty or may not be able to locate and hire a suitable replacement. Certain directors and officers may be subject to conflicts of interest. The majority of our directors and officers are involved in other business ventures including similar capacities with other private or publicly-traded companies. Such individuals may have significant responsibilities to these other business ventures, including consulting relationships, which may require significant amounts of their available time. Conflicts of interest may include decisions on how much time to devote to our business affairs and what business opportunities should be presented to us. Our Code of Business Conduct for Directors, Officers and Employees provides for guidance on conflicts of interest. Nevada law and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors and officers from certain types of lawsuits. Nevada law provides that our directors and officers will not be liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors and officers. Our Bylaws provide for broad indemnification powers to all persons against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. These indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, and may have the effect of preventing stockholders from recovering damages against our directors and officers caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. Several of our directors and officers are residents outside of the U.S., and it may be difficult for stockholders to enforce within the U.S. any judgments obtained against such directors or officers. Several of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of such persons' assets are located outside of the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on such directors and officers, or enforce within the U.S. any judgments obtained against such directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. or any state thereof. Consequently, stockholders may be effectively prevented from pursuing remedies against such directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, stockholders may not be able to commence an action in a Canadian court predicated upon the civil liability provisions under U.S. federal securities laws. The foregoing risks also apply to those experts identified in this document that are not residents of the U.S. 16 Disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed and operated, are designed to obtain reasonable, and not absolute, assurance as to its reliability and effectiveness. Management’s evaluation on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures is designed to ensure that information required for disclosure in our public filings is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis to our senior management, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use and transactions are properly recorded and reported. Any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, is based in part upon certain assumptions designed to obtain reasonable, and not absolute, assurance as to its reliability and effectiveness. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock Historically, the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to fluctuate significantly. On September 28, 2007, our common stock commenced trading on the NYSE MKT Equities Exchange (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange and the NYSE Amex Equities Exchange) and prior to that, traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. The global stock markets have experienced significant and increased volatility, especially over the last few years. Although this volatility is often unrelated to specific company performance, it can have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition to the volatility associated with general economic trends and market conditions, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to the impact of any one or more events, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) volatility in the uranium market; (ii) occurrence of a major nuclear incident; (iii) changes in the outlook for the nuclear power and uranium industries; (iv) failure to meet market expectations on our exploration, development or production activities, including abandonment of key uranium projects; (v) sales of a large number of our common stock held by certain stockholders including institutions and insiders; (vi) downward revisions to estimates on us by securities analysts; (vii) removal from market indices; (viii) legal claims brought forth against us; and (ix) introduction of technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies. A prolonged decline in the market price of our common stock could affect our ability to obtain additional financing which would adversely affect our operations. During the recent past, the global markets have been impacted by the effects of mass sub-prime mortgage defaults and liquidity problems of the asset-backed commercial paper market, which have resulted in a number of large financial institutions requiring government bailouts or filing for bankruptcy. The effects of these past events and any similar events in the future may continue to or further affect the global markets, which may directly affect the market price of our common stock and our accessibility for additional financing. Historically, we have relied on equity financing as our primary source of financing. A prolonged decline in the market price of our common stock or a reduction in our accessibility to the global markets may result in our inability to secure additional financing which would have an adverse effect on our operations. Additional issuances of our common stock may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders and reduce the market value of their investment. Issuances of our common stock for additional financing, mergers and acquisitions and for other reasons may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders, including a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power and a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We also filed a Form S-3 “Shelf” Registration Statement that became effective September 2, 2011 which provides for the offer and sale of certain securities of the Company from time to time, at its discretion, up to an aggregate public offering of $50 million of which approximately $22.5 million has been utilized. 17 Our common stock is currently classified as a "penny stock" under SEC rules which may limit the market for our common stock. Under SEC rules, a "penny stock" generally refers to securities of companies that trade below $5.00 per share. Historically, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and has traded above and below $5.00 per share. At July 31, 2012, the trading price of our common stock closed at $2.00 per share and was therefore classified as a penny stock. SEC Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an "established customer" or an "accredited investor." This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customers concerning the risk of penny stocks. Many broker-dealers decline to participate in penny stock transactions because of the extra requirements imposed on penny stock transactions. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock from time to time may limit our market liquidity, which in turn affects the ability of our stockholders to resell their shares at prices at or above their cost. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 