ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our results have been in the past, and could be in the future, adversely affected by deteriorations in economic conditions The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. The recent global economic downturn resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, which resulted in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Although we believe that global economic conditions are improving, if they do not continue to improve or if they deteriorate again, global economic conditions may once again adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate revenues in specific markets is directly affected by local and regional conditions, and regional economic declines also may adversely impact our results. In addition, even in the absence of a downturn in general economic conditions, an individual business sector or market may experience a downturn, causing it to reduce its advertising expenditures, which may also adversely impact our results. Our consolidated revenue increased $100.0 million during 2010 compared to 2009. However, primarily as a result of the recent global economic downturn, our consolidated revenue decreased $591.3 million during 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease in 2009 was experienced by each of our segments. We performed impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2010 and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $11.5 million primarily related to a specific outdoor market for which the unfavorable impact of litigation has resulted in the impairment of certain advertising structures and declines in revenue. Additionally, we performed impairment tests in 2008 and 2009 on our indefinite-lived assets and goodwill and, as a result of the global economic downturn and the corresponding reduction in our revenues, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $3.2 billion and $890.7 million, respectively. Although we believe we have made reasonable estimates and used appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of our billboard permits and reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived assets or goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, we may also be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. To service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control Our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund capital expenditures for display construction or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control, which may prevent us from securing sufficient cash to meet these needs. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will also depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flow from operations, cash on hand and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, or attempt to obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing indebtedness and other future indebtedness may limit our ability to pursue these alternatives. 12 Table of Contents The indentures governing Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes, and Clear Channel Communications’ Bank Credit Facility (of which the Company is a Restricted Subsidiary) and the Master Agreement with Clear Channel Communications impose restrictions on our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities The indentures governing Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes, and Clear Channel Communications’ Bank Credit Facility and the Master Agreement with Clear Channel Communications include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • repurchase our stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale leaseback transactions; • dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • merge or consolidate. In addition, the indentures governing the Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc. $500.0 million Series A Senior Notes and $2.0 billion Series B Senior Notes require us to make an offer to purchase the notes upon a change in control (as defined in the indentures), and, upon asset sales, subject to certain exceptions, make an offer to purchase the notes using the amount of excess proceeds received from such asset sales. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the holders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. The existence of these restrictions limits our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities, including our ability to grow and increase our revenue or respond to competitive changes. The following is a discussion of our sources of capital: • Certain of our International subsidiaries may borrow against a $150.0 million sub-limit included in Clear Channel Communications’ $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, to the extent Clear Channel Communications has not already borrowed against this capacity and is in compliance with its covenants under the credit facility. As of December 31, 2010, we had no outstanding borrowings under the $150.0 million sub-limit facility as Clear Channel Communications has already borrowed against the entire capacity. • As part of the day-to-day cash management services provided by Clear Channel Communications, we maintain accounts that represent net amounts due to or from Clear Channel Communications, which is recorded as “Due from/to Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet. The accounts represent the net of the balances on our revolving promissory note issued by us to Clear Channel Communications and the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us, each in the face amount of $1.0 billion, or if more or less than such amount, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all advances. Clear Channel Communications is not required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Our claim in relation to cash transferred from our concentration account is on an unsecured basis and is limited to the balance of the “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications with respect to the revolving promissory note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the asset recorded in “Due from Clear Channel Communications” on the consolidated balance sheet was $383.8 million and $123.3 million, respectively. 13 Table of Contents Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future financings and adversely affect our liquidity, and also may adversely impact our business operations Our and Clear Channel Communications’ corporate credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service are speculative-grade and have been downgraded and upgraded at various times during the past several years. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, reduce the availability of financing to us or increase the cost of doing business or otherwise negatively impact our business operations. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by certain variables which are not in our control Certain variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees, or profit margins include: • unfavorable economic conditions, both general and relative to outdoor advertising and all related industries, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or which may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising alternatives than what we offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics, which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions, which may impair our ability to operate or require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies, including changes to restrictions on rebuilding non-conforming structures, which could restrict the advertising media that we employ or restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media, or from advertising at all. We face intense competition in the outdoor advertising industry We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising and sales revenues. Our advertising properties compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other outdoor advertising companies, as well as with other media, such as radio, newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, satellite radio and Internet-based media, within their respective markets. Market shares are subject to change, which could have the effect of reducing our revenue in that market. Our competitors may develop services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It also is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments. An increased level of competition for advertising dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. Our business is dependent on our management team and other key individuals, many of whom are new to our company and one of whom, our Chief Executive Officer, has announced his intention to retire Our business is dependent upon the performance of our management team and other key individuals. A number of these individuals, including Thomas W. Casey, our Chief Financial Officer, Scott D. Hamilton, our Chief Accounting Officer, and Robert H. Walls, Jr., our General Counsel, joined us in 2010, and our two divisional CEOs, 14 Table of Contents Ronald Cooper, the Chief Executive Officer of Americas, and William Eccleshare, the Chief Executive Officer of International, have joined us within the last 18 months. Although we have entered into agreements with some of these and other individuals, we can give no assurance that all or any of our management team or key individuals will remain with us. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us, and may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. In June 2010, Mark P. Mays announced his decision to retire as our Chief Executive Officer and asked the Board of Directors of CC Media Holdings, our indirect parent entity, to initiate a search for his replacement. CC Media Holdings has been actively searching for a replacement but, to date, has not identified his successor. In January 2011, Mr. Mays informed us that he would step down as Chief Executive Officer on the earlier of the date that his successor joins the Company or March 31, 2011. While Mr. Mays has indicated his desire to continue to serve as the Chairman of our Board of Directors and to remain actively involved with us in that capacity, if we are unable to identify a suitable candidate to succeed him as Chief Executive Officer, if any other senior members of our management or key individuals decide to leave us in the future, or if we are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining other key employees, our business could be adversely affected. Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations U.S. federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on the 306,000 miles of Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems. The HBA regulates the size and location of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by federal, state and local governments. From time to time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. Due to such regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to develop new outdoor advertising locations. From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement, condemnation and amortization. Amortization is the attempted forced removal of legal non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable laws and regulations when built, but which do not conform to current laws and regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such billboards after a period of years. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads and generally prohibited along non-controlled roads. Amortization has, however, been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where provided by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. For example, recent court rulings have upheld regulations in the City of New York that have impacted our displays in certain areas within the city. Although the number of our billboards from which we have been required to remove commercial advertising as a result of these regulations is immaterial, from time to time in the future we may be required to remove billboards for alleged noncompliance with regulations. Such regulations and allegations have not had a material impact on our results of operations to date, but if we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our operating results could suffer. 15 Table of Contents A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including taxes, fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. In addition, a number of jurisdictions, including the City of Los Angeles, have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the installation of new digital billboards. While these controls have not had a material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect states and local governments to continue these efforts. The increased imposition of these controls and our inability to overcome any such regulations could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be adversely affected. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry varies by region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays. For instance, the United States and most European Union countries, among other nations, have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenue, international client base and overall financial condition. Additional restrictions on outdoor advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other U.S. territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Other products and services may be targeted in the future, including alcohol products. Legislation regulating tobacco and alcohol advertising has also been introduced in a number of European countries in which we conduct business and could have a similar impact. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, we must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. Doing business in foreign countries exposes us to certain risks not found when doing business in the United States Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found when doing business in the United States. The risks of doing business in foreign countries that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • hostility from local populations; • the adverse effect of foreign exchange controls; • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; • investment restrictions or requirements; • expropriations of property; • the potential instability of foreign governments; • the risk of insurrections; 16 Table of Contents • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • difficulties collecting receivables and otherwise enforcing contracts with governmental agencies and others in some foreign legal systems; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • changes in tax structure and level; and • changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations. In addition, because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenues from our International operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. Our international operations involve contracts with, and regulation by, foreign governments. We operate in many parts of the world that experience government corruption to some degree. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance (including with respect to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010), our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging from three to 20 years and have revenue share and/or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results. Future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could pose risks We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: • certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • to successfully manage our large portfolio of outdoor advertising and other properties, we may need to: • recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired companies will continue to work for us and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and • expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired properties, because failure to do so may cause us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management; • we may enter into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; • we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; and • we may lose key employees of acquired companies. Additional acquisitions by us may require antitrust review by federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the Federal Trade Commission or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar 17 Table of Contents us from acquiring additional outdoor advertising properties in any market where we already have a significant position. The DOJ actively reviews proposed acquisitions of outdoor advertising properties. In addition, the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions will apply if we acquire international outdoor advertising properties. Our cost savings initiatives may not be entirely successful In the fourth quarter of 2008, CC Media Holdings initiated a restructuring program targeting a reduction in fixed costs through renegotiations of lease agreements, workforce reductions, the elimination of overlapping functions and other cost savings initiatives. We incurred restructuring and other expenses under the program, and have incurred additional such expenses during 2010. We may incur additional expenses through ongoing cost-saving initiatives in the future. No assurance can be given that anticipated cost savings will be achieved in the timeframe expected or at all, or for how long any cost savings will persist. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications Because Clear Channel Communications controls substantially all of the total voting power of our common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote As of December 31, 2010, Clear Channel Communications indirectly owned all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 20 votes and each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters on which stockholders are entitled to vote. As a result, Clear Channel Communications controlled approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock. As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election of all members of our Board of Directors and, therefore, to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock, if applicable, and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Clear Channel Communications will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control. Because Clear Channel Communications’ interests as our controlling stockholder may differ from other stockholders’ interests, actions taken by Clear Channel Communications with respect to us may not be favorable to all stockholders. We have entered into agreements with Clear Channel Communications that impose obligations on us with respect to cash management and other corporate services, financing activities, acquisitions and other business activities We have entered into a Master Agreement, a Corporate Services Agreement, a Tax Matters Agreement, a Trademark License Agreement and a number of other agreements with Clear Channel Communications setting forth various matters governing our relationship with Clear Channel Communications while it remains a significant stockholder in us. These agreements govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and allow Clear Channel Communications to retain control over many aspects of our operations. We are not able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, we are obligated to use various corporate services provided by Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, executive officer services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services and procurement and sourcing support. Also pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, substantially all of the cash generated from our domestic Americas operations is transferred daily into accounts of Clear Channel Communications (after satisfying the funding requirements of the trustee account under the senior notes issued in December 2009 by Clear Channel Worldwide Holdings, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary 18 Table of Contents of ours), where funds of ours and of Clear Channel Communications may be commingled. We do not have a commitment from Clear Channel Communications to advance funds to us, and we have no access to the cash transferred from us to Clear Channel Communications. Net amounts owed are evidenced by revolving promissory notes. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor of Clear Channel Communications. In such event, we would be treated the same as other unsecured creditors of Clear Channel Communications and, if we were not entitled to the cash previously transferred to Clear Channel Communications, or could not obtain such cash on a timely basis, we could experience a liquidity shortfall. In addition, the Master Agreement includes restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; • incur additional indebtedness; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • repurchase our stock; • dispose of certain assets; and • merger or consolidate. The rights of Clear Channel Communications under these agreements may allow Clear Channel Communications to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, the restrictions contained in these agreements limit our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities, including our ability to grow and increase our revenue or respond to competitive changes. The terms of our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications may be more favorable than we would be able to obtain from an unaffiliated third party, and we may be unable to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms We negotiated our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship prior to the initial public offering of our Class A common stock. Although Clear Channel Communications is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the term of the Corporate Services Agreement, we cannot assure you these services will be sustained at an appropriate level, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the amount we pay Clear Channel Communications for the services will be as favorable to us as that which may be available for comparable services provided by unrelated third parties. Other agreements with Clear Channel Communications also govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and provide for the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations. The agreements also contain terms and provisions that may be more favorable than terms and provisions we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. If Clear Channel Communications ceases to provide services to us pursuant to those agreements, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase. Conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Clear Channel Communications is owned indirectly by CC Media Holdings. Three of our directors serve as directors of CC Media Holdings. Three of our other directors are affiliated with CC Media Holdings and its stockholders. In addition, four of our executive officers serve as executive officers of CC Media Holdings. 19 Table of Contents Areas in which conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of CC Media Holdings or service as a director or officer of both CC Media Holdings and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to: (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Clear Channel Communications; (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity; (iii) employee retention or recruiting; or (iv) our dividend policy. • Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Clear Channel Communications or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Clear Channel Communications and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our Board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. • Intercompany agreements. We have entered into certain agreements with Clear Channel Communications pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we reimburse Clear Channel Communications on a cost basis. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Clear Channel Communications for certain of our businesses. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us, we are contractually obligated to utilize the services of the chief executive officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Financial Officer until Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, or we provide Clear Channel Communications with six months prior written notice of termination. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. If Clear Channel Communications engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Clear Channel Communications will have no obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the other hand. The policy provides that if Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity. It also provides that if one of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer. If one of our officers or directors, who also serves as a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications or CC Media Holdings, learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the director or officer will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of Clear Channel Communications’ actions with respect to that corporate opportunity. 20 Table of Contents This policy could result in Clear Channel Communications having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and Clear Channel Communications have an interest. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that may not provide as many protections as those afforded to stockholders of other companies Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, and we are a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we may elect to use certain exemptions under the NYSE standards that free us from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: (i) that a majority of the Board of Directors consists of independent directors; (ii) that we have a Nominating and Governance Committee composed entirely of independent directors and governed by a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities; (iii) that we have a Compensation Committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and (iv) for an annual performance evaluation of the Compensation Committee. We intend to continue to utilize certain of these exemptions and, as a result, we may not create or maintain a Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee, if created, and the Compensation Committee may not consist entirely of independent directors, and our Board of Directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We do not have control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel Communications As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our common stock, we and certain of our subsidiaries will be included in Clear Channel Communications’ consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings’ consolidated group for post-merger periods. In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications for pre-merger periods and CC Media Holdings for post-merger periods or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we pay to Clear Channel Communications the amount of federal, foreign, state and local income taxes that we would be required to pay to the relevant taxing authorities if we and our subsidiaries filed combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns and were not included in the consolidated, combined or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries. In addition, by virtue of its controlling ownership and the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications effectively controls all of our tax decisions. The Tax Matters Agreement provides that Clear Channel Communications has the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to us, to file all income tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Clear Channel Communications under the Tax Matters Agreement. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us. For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications is able to choose to contest, compromise, or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Clear Channel Communications and detrimental to us. Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax Matters Agreement, federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Clear Channel Communications or other members of the group fail to make any United States federal income tax payments required by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes. 21 Table of Contents If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for its tax-related liabilities in certain circumstances If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders in a distribution intended to be tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Code, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates against any and all tax-related liabilities if such a spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) due to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement. If neither we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement for any such spin-off not being tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, we and Clear Channel Communications have agreed to each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure of such a spin-off to so qualify. Any deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications could adversely affect our access to the credit markets and increase our borrowing costs As long as Clear Channel Communications maintains significant control over us, a deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs or impairing our access to the capital markets because of our reliance on Clear Channel Communications for availability under our “Due from Clear Channel Communications” account and its revolving credit facility. To the extent we do not pass on our increased borrowing costs to our clients, our profitability, and potentially our ability to raise capital, could be materially affected. Also, until the first date Clear Channel Communications owns shares of our common stock representing less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, pursuant to the Master Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications, Clear Channel Communications will have the ability to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, among other limitations, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to grow our business. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our stock ownership by Clear Channel Communications, provisions in our agreements with Clear Channel Communications and our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares of Class A common stock As long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party. As a controlled company, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that our Board of Directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on stockholder action by written consent, only become effective once Clear Channel Communications no longer controls us. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to Clear Channel Communications while it retains at least 15% or more of our Class B common stock. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 22 Table of Contents If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to the CC Media Holdings stockholders and such shares do not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or other transfer subsequent to such distribution, the voting rights of our Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock In connection with any distribution of shares of our Class B common stock to CC Media Holdings’ common stockholders in a spin-off, Clear Channel Communications may elect in its sole discretion whether our Class B common stock so distributed will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon a transfer or sale by the recipient subsequent to the spin-off or whether the Class B common stock will continue as Class B common stock after the distribution. In the event the Class B common stock does not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or transfer subsequent to a spin-off, the voting rights of Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. Therefore, the holders of our Class B common stock will continue to be able to direct the election of all the members of our Board of Directors and exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. Future sales or distributions of our shares by Clear Channel Communications could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock Clear Channel Communications may sell all or part of the shares of our common stock it owns or distribute those shares to the CC Media Holdings stockholders, including pursuant to demand registration rights described in the Registration Rights Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications. Sales or distributions by Clear Channel Communications of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or to the CC Media Holdings stockholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. Clear Channel Communications has advised us it currently intends to continue to hold all of our common stock it owns. However, Clear Channel Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. Consequently, we cannot assure you Clear Channel Communications will maintain its ownership of our common stock. We currently do not pay dividends on our Class A common stock To date, we have never paid dividends on our Class A common stock and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends should we seek to do so in the future. We are a holding company with no independent operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. We therefore are dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our senior notes contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we elect not to pay dividends in the future or are prevented from doing so, the price of our Class A common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment. This appreciation may not occur. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. This large amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including, without limitation: • dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing cash available for other purposes, including to fund operations and capital expenditures, invest in new technology and pursue other business opportunities; • limiting our liquidity and operational flexibility and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; • requiring us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, sell assets, restructure existing indebtedness or defer acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; 23 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to refinance any of our indebtedness or increasing the cost of any such financing in any downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions; • making us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and • making us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, these actions may not be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness we will be in default under one or more of our debt agreements and, as a result we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Because we derive a substantial portion of operating income from our subsidiaries, our ability to repay our debt depends upon the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to dividend or distribute funds to us We derive a substantial portion of operating income from our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and the ability to service our indebtedness depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and the ability of those entities to distribute funds to us. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, pay to us the amounts necessary to service our debt. The documents governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Our material financing agreements contain various covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • make acquisitions or investments; • make loans or otherwise extend credit to others; • incur indebtedness or issue shares or guarantees; • create security; • sell, lease, transfer or dispose of assets; • merge or consolidate with other companies; and • make a substantial change to the general nature of our business. These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance our capital needs. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. These include prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, we could be in default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, and as a result we would be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 24 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including, without limitation, our future operating and financial performance and availability of capital and the terms thereof. Statements expressing expectations and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance. There can be no assurance, however, that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including: • risks associated with a global economic downturn and its impact on capital markets; • other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • the impact of the geopolitical environment; • industry conditions, including competition; • fluctuations in operating costs; • technological changes and innovations; • changes in labor conditions; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • capital expenditure requirements; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; • the outcome of pending and future litigation; • changes in interest rates; • taxes; • shifts in population and other demographics; • access to capital markets and borrowed indebtedness; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the operations of recently acquired companies successfully; • the risk that our cost savings initiatives may not be entirely successful or that any cost savings achieved from those initiatives may not persist; • the effect of leverage on our financial position and earnings; • the impact of the above and similar factors on Clear Channel Communications, Inc., our primary direct or indirect external source of capital; and • certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not intended to be exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 