ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Form 10-K and in documents incorporated by reference herein (or otherwise made by us or on our behalf) contain "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. Forward looking statements include statements as to industry trends and our future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts and are based on certain assumptions of our management. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "strive," "will," and variations of such words or similar expressions. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of management based on information currently available. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements include, without limitation, the risk factors mentioned below. Furthermore, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Since we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Current economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and the financial health of our customers and others with whom we do business which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash resources. Uncertainty about the current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers and retailers to defer purchases or cancel purchase orders for our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and weakened consumer confidence. Our financial success is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both globally and nationally. Recessionary economic cycles, 9 Table of Contents higher interest borrowing rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. In addition, the decrease in available credit that has resulted from the weakened economy may result in financial difficulties for our wholesale and retail customers, product suppliers, insurers, other service providers and the financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facility and derivative transactions. In particular, our customers may experience diminished liquidity that could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties it could adversely impact our estimated reserves and financial results. We face significant competition. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors have: significantly greater financial resources than us, more comprehensive product lines, a broader market presence, longer-standing relationships with wholesalers, a longer operating history, greater distribution capabilities, stronger brand recognition, and spend substantially more than we do on product advertising and sales. Our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. Further, some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to Crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, we may lose market share, our financial condition may deteriorate, and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. We may be unable to successfully execute our long-term growth strategy or maintain our current revenue levels. Although we exhibited significant growth from our inception through 2007, revenues were significantly lower in 2008, 2009 and 2010, relative to the peak levels achieved in 2007. We may experience similar decreases in revenues in the future. Our ability to maintain our revenue levels or to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and bring compelling and revenue-enhancing footwear offerings to market and our ability to expand within our current distribution channels and increase sales of our products into new locations internationally. Likewise, in order to effectively execute our long-term growth strategy, we will need to continue to streamline our supply chain to increase operating efficiencies and decrease costs. Successfully executing our long-term growth strategy will depend on many factors, including the strength of the Crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter, our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels, our ability to secure strategic retail store locations, our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories, and our ability to consolidate our network to leverage resources and simplify our fulfillment process. If we are unable to successfully 10 Table of Contents maintain our brand image, expand distribution channels, streamline our supply chain and sell our products in new markets abroad, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Expanding our footwear product line may be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our current revenue levels or our revenues may continue to decline. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands, preferences and fashion trends, and our footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional footwear designs that appeal to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, our revenues may decline further, our brand image may suffer, our operating performance may decline and we may not be able to execute upon our growth plans. In producing new footwear models, we may encounter difficulties that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change in response to consumer preferences and competing products. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail and wholesale distribution, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of new models and product lines and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products in certain target markets; as such, we may set the prices of new models too high for the market to bear or we may not provide the appropriate level of marketing in order to educate the market and potential consumers about new products. Achieving market acceptance will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general, and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts effectively. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we introduce could impede our ability to maintain or grow our current revenues, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position and result in long-term harm to our business. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers' orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations, consolidation, contraction, and closings, as well as fashion trends, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting demand and possibly impairing our brand image. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand and, if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lower sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Opening and operating additional retail stores are subject to numerous risks, and declines in revenue of such retail stores could adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, we have significantly expanded and intend to continue the expansion of our retail sales channel. Opening global retail stores involve substantial investments, including constructing leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, equipment, information systems, inventory and personnel. Operating global retail stores incurs fixed costs, and if we have insufficient sales, we may be unable to reduce expenses in order to avoid losses or negative cash flows. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the retail segment, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in write-downs of inventory and leasehold improvements, severance costs, significant lease termination costs, impairment losses on long-lived assets or loss of our working capital, which could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to recover the investment in and expenditures of our retail operations can be adversely affected if sales at our retail stores are lower than anticipated. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S.; however, a majority of our cash is generated and held outside of the U.S. The risks attendant to holding cash abroad could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S., but the majority of our cash is generated and held abroad. We generally consider unremitted earnings of subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. to be indefinitely reinvested and it is not our current intent to change this position. Cash held outside of the U.S. is primarily used for the ongoing operations of the business in the locations in which the cash is held. Most of the cash held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S., but under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. In some countries, repatriation of certain foreign balances is restricted by local laws and could have adverse tax consequences if we were to move the cash to another country. Certain countries, including China, may have monetary laws which may limit our ability to utilize cash resources in those countries for operations in other countries. These limitations may affect our ability to fully utilize our cash resources for needs in the U.S. or other countries and may adversely affect our liquidity. Since repatriation of such cash is subject to limitations and may be subject to significant taxation, we cannot be certain that we will be able to repatriate such cash on favorable terms or in a timely manner. If we continue to incur operating losses and require cash held in international accounts for use in our U.S. operations, a failure to repatriate such cash in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our asset-backed revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial metrics and ratios and restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility. A breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under the facility, and our lenders could foreclose on our assets. The credit agreement for our asset-backed revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a certain level of tangible net worth and a minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio on a quarterly basis. A lack of revenue growth, a failure to meet our tangible net worth level or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our ability to meet these financial covenants and, if we breach such covenants or any of the restrictive covenants described below, the lenders could either refuse to lend funds to us or accelerate the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. We might not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness upon a default. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding against us or collection proceedings with respect to our assets, all of which secure our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility. The credit agreement also contains certain restrictive covenants that limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things incur additional debt, sell, lease or transfer our assets, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and investments, guarantee debt or obligations, 12 Table of Contents create liens, enter into transactions with our affiliates, and enter into certain merger, consolidation or other reorganizations transactions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand the current or future downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, any of which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt and are not subject to such restrictions. We manufacture a portion of our products which causes us to incur greater fixed costs. Any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We produce a portion of our footwear products at our internal manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Italy. Ownership of these facilities adds fixed costs to our cost structure which are not as easily scalable as variable costs. The manufacture of our products from Croslite requires the use of a complex process and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted below with respect to our third-party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We depend heavily on third-party manufacturers located outside the U.S. Third-party manufacturers located outside of the U.S. (China and Bosnia) produce most of our footwear products. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered, maintain adequate manufacturing capacity and meet our quality standards. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our third-party manufacturers, and we do not exert direct control over the manufacturers' operations. As such, we have experienced at times, specifically in China, delays or inabilities to fulfill customer demand and orders. While we are increasing our communication and relationships with our third-party manufacturers, we cannot guarantee that any third-party manufacturer will have sufficient production capacity, meet our production deadlines or meet our quality standards. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these third-party manufacturers and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third-party manufacturers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to additional risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, work stoppages, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, changes in governmental policies and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our internal manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third-party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third-party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. 13 Table of Contents China Because a large portion of our footwear products are manufactured in China, the possibility of adverse changes in trade or political relations between the U.S. and China, political instability in China, increases in labor costs, or adverse weather conditions could significantly interfere with the production and shipment of our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial results. Compliance with standards and laws We require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet our quality control standards and footwear-industry standards for working conditions and other matters, including compliance with applicable labor, environmental and other laws. However, we do not control our third-party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to quality standards or labor, environmental and other laws could cause us to incur additional costs for our products and could cause negative publicity, damage to our reputation and the value of our brand, and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. We also require our third-party foreign manufacturers to meet both our and industry standards for product safety. A failure by any of our third-party manufacturers to adhere to product safety standards could lead to a product recall, which could result in critical media coverage and harm our business and reputation and could cause us to incur additional costs. Trade laws and regulations In addition, if we or our third-party foreign manufacturers violate U.S. or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of our imported products, misstatements or errors as to the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of foreign produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We conduct significant business activity outside the U.S. which exposes us to foreign currency and other risks. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. We purchase products and supplies from third parties in U.S. dollars and receive payments from certain of our international customers in foreign currencies. The cost of these products and supplies sourced overseas, and payments received from customers, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to foreign manufacturing, we operate retail stores and sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. We have had significant revenues from foreign sales. Foreign manufacturing and 14 Table of Contents sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including tariffs, anti-dumping fines, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of foreign-sourced products; increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; restrictions on the transfer of funds; restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; changes in governmental policies and regulations; political unrest, changes in law, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; expropriation and nationalization; difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our wholesale customers and to the success of such wholesale customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our current and prospective wholesale customers to carry our products and the expansion to new wholesale customers, We do not have long term contracts with any of our wholesale customers, and sales to our wholesale customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. Our financial success is also significantly related to the success of our wholesale customers who are directly impacted by fluctuations in the broader economy, including the recent global economic downturn which reduced foot traffic in shopping malls and lessened consumer demand for our products. Changes in the global credit market could also affect our customers' liquidity and capital resources and their ability to meet their payment obligations to us which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and capital resources. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable aging and have recorded appropriate reserves as we deem appropriate. Additionally, many of our wholesale customers compete with each other and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our wholesale customers by selling our products to consumers via the internet and through our company-operated retail locations. If our wholesale customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. Furthermore, we continue to grow our consumer-direct channels (company-operated retail and internet) which could exacerbate this issue. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding Croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from two suppliers. If the suppliers we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of the Croslite material, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. 15 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and counterfeiting of our brands could divert sales, damage our brand image and adversely affect our business. We utilize trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents and trade dress and designs on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. The laws of some countries, e.g., China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. We periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging another party's products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, particularly in some foreign countries, or if we are required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations by resulting in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. If our brands are associated with inferior counterfeit reproductions, the integrity of our brands could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are typically met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the U.S., and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information related to, among other things, the formulation of the Croslite material and product development, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third-party manufacturers and compounding facilities may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use in an effort to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may be ineffective and may be insufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information or other proprietary information, others, including our competitors, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit that may result in substantial costs and could divert management's attention. Starting in November 2007, certain stockholders filed several purported shareholder class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on alleged statements made by us between July 27, 2007 and October 31, 2007. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in complaints filed by investors in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The first complaint was filed in November 2007; several other complaints were filed shortly thereafter. These actions were consolidated and, in September 2008, the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and counsel. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in December 2008. The amended complaint purports to state claims under Section 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Exchange Act on behalf of a class of all persons who purchased our stock between April 2, 2007 and April 14, 2008 (the "Class Period"). The amended complaint alleges that, during the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading public statements about us and our business and prospects and that, as a result, the market price of our stock was artificially inflated. The amended complaint also claims that certain current and former officers and directors traded our stock on the basis of material non-public information. The amended complaint 16 Table of Contents seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the alleged class in an unspecified amount, interest, and an award of attorneys' fees and costs of litigation. The Company believe the claims lack merit and intends to defend the action vigorously. Motions to dismiss are currently pending with the Court. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and because the litigation is at a preliminary stage, we cannot at this time accurately predict the ultimate outcome of the matter, or of the amount or range of potential loss, if any. It is possible that this action could be resolved adversely to us. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may, in the future, be the target of additional proceedings, and the present or future proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. We have experienced significant management turnover in recent years. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In some cases, we may be required to pay significant amounts of severance to terminated management employees. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for our business and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our business. We are in the process of implementing numerous information systems designed to support several areas of our business, including warehouse management, order management, retail point-of-sale and internet point-of-sale as well as various systems that provide interfaces between these systems. These systems are intended to assist in streamlining our operational processes and eliminating certain manual processes. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. From time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses, and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. We believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. However, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. The failure of any significant investment to provide the 17 Table of Contents returns or profitability we expect could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal variations and are sensitive to weather conditions. The majority of our revenues are attributable to footwear styles that are more suitable for fair weather and typically experience our highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year, when there is a revenue concentration in countries in the northern hemisphere. While we continue to create more footwear models that are more suitable for cold weather, the effects of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales can be significant enough to affect our quarterly results, with a resulting effect on our common stock price. Quarterly results may also fluctuate as a result of other factors, including new model introductions, general economic conditions or changes in consumer preferences. Results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. This could lead to results outside of analyst and investor expectations, which could cause the volatility in our stock price to increase. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly and various securities analysts follow our financial results and frequently issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of our future performance. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations of our business. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 