ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements Statements in this Form 10-K and in documents incorporated by reference herein (or otherwise made by us or on our behalf) contain “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. Forward looking statements include statements as to industry trends, our future expectations and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts and are based on certain assumptions of our management. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “strive,” “will,” and variations of such words or similar expressions. Further, these statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of management based on information currently available. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements include, without limitation, the risk factors mentioned below. Moreover, such forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. The risks included herein are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Since we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 8 Table of Contents Current global economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and the financial health of our customers and others with whom we do business which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash resources. Uncertainty about the current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers and retailers to defer purchases or cancel purchase orders for our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and weakened consumer confidence. For example, sales and operating performance in our Europe segment in 2012 were adversely affected by the macroeconomic conditions surrounding the European sovereign debt crisis and may continue to be affected if such conditions do not improve. Our financial success is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both globally and nationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest borrowing rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending could adversely affect the demand for our products. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. Our financial success is also significantly related to the success of our wholesale customers who are directly impacted by fluctuations in the broader economy including the global economic downturns which reduce foot traffic in shopping malls and lessen consumer demand for our products. In addition, any decrease in available credit caused by a weakened global economy may result in financial difficulties for our wholesale and retail customers, product suppliers and other service providers, as well as the financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facility and derivative transactions. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these parties, it could adversely impact our estimated reserves, our ability to obtain future financing and our financial results. In particular, if our customers experience diminished liquidity, we may experience a reduction in product orders, an increase in customer order cancellations and/or the need to extend customer payment terms which could lead to higher accounts receivable balances, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. We face significant competition. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Continued growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies and retailers with their own private label footwear products. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than us, more comprehensive product lines, a broader market presence, longer standing relationships with wholesalers, a longer operating history, greater distribution capabilities, stronger brand recognition and spend substantially more than we do on product marketing. Our competitors’ greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. Additionally, some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to Crocs branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, we may lose market share, our financial condition may deteriorate and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. We may be unable to successfully execute our long-term growth strategy or maintain our current revenue levels. Our ability to maintain our revenue levels or to grow in the future depends on, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and bring compelling and revenue enhancing footwear offerings to market and our ability to expand within our current distribution channels and increase sales of our 9 Table of Contents products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing our long-term growth and profitability strategy will depend on many factors, including the strength of the Crocs brand, execution of supply chain strategies, competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter, our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to continue to develop direct sales channels, our ability to secure strategic retail store locations, our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand and our other intellectual property in these new markets and territories and our ability to consolidate our network to leverage resources and simplify our fulfillment process. If we are unable to successfully maintain our brand image, expand distribution channels, streamline our supply chain and sell our products in new markets abroad, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Expanding our footwear product line may be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our current revenue and profit levels. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, our revenues may decrease, our brand image may suffer, our operating performance may decline and we may not be able to execute our growth plans. In producing new footwear models, we may encounter difficulties that we did not anticipate during the product development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change in response to consumer preferences and competing products. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture new products in quantities sufficient to support retail and wholesale distribution, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of new styles and product lines and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent to having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new style may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products in certain target markets; as such, we may set the prices of new styles too high for the market to bear or we may not provide the appropriate level of marketing in order to educate the market and potential consumers about our new products. Achieving market acceptance will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts effectively or that such efforts will be successful. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products could impede our ability to maintain or grow current revenue levels, reduce profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position and result in long-term harm to our business. Opening and operating additional retail stores are subject to numerous risks including the dependency on customer traffic in shopping malls; declines in revenue of such retail stores could adversely affect our profitability. In recent years, we have significantly expanded and intend to continue the expansion of our retail sales channel. Opening retail stores globally involves substantial investment, including the construction of leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, equipment, information systems, inventory and personnel. Operating global retail stores incurs fixed costs; if we have insufficient sales, we may be unable to reduce such fixed costs and avoid losses or negative cash flows. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the retail segment, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in write downs of inventory, impairment of leasehold improvements, impairment losses on other long-lived assets, severance costs, significant lease termination costs or the loss of working capital, which could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to recover the investment in and expenditures of our retail operations can be adversely affected if sales at our retail stores are lower than anticipated. 10 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to open new stores successfully depends on our ability to identify suitable store locations, negotiate acceptable lease terms, hire, train and retain store personnel and satisfy the fashion preferences in new geographic areas. Many of our retail stores are located in shopping malls where we depend on obtaining prominent locations and the overall success of the malls to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the success of individual malls and an increase in store closures by other retailers may lead to mall vacancies and reduced foot traffic. Reduced customer traffic could reduce sales of existing retail stores or hinder our ability to open retail stores in new markets, which could negatively affect our operating results. We have incurred substantial financial commitments and fixed costs related to our retail stores that we will not be able to recover if our stores are not successful. The success of an individual store location is dependent on the success of the shopping mall or outlet center where the store is located, and may be influenced by changing customer demographic and consumer spending patterns. These factors cannot be predicted with accuracy. Because we enter into long-term financial commitments when leasing retail store locations and incur substantial fixed costs for each store’s design, leasehold improvements, fixtures and management information systems, it would be costly for us to close a store that does not prove successful. The testing of our retail stores’ long-lived assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows that are inherently uncertain. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic conditions, our results of operations, and competitive conditions in the industry. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with our retail operations, negative cash flows or the closure of a store could result in write downs of inventory, impairment of leasehold improvements, impairment losses on other long-lived assets, severance costs, significant lease termination costs or the loss of working capital, which could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For example, during 2012, we recorded impairments relating to retail stores of $1.4 million, and these impairment charges may increase as we expand our retail operations. Our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial metrics and ratios and restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility. A breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under the facility, and our lenders could foreclose on our assets. The credit agreement for our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a certain leverage ratio at all times, a certain level of unrestricted cash at all times, and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio on a quarterly basis. A failure to maintain current revenue levels or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our ability to meet these financial covenants and, if we breach such covenants or any of the restrictive covenants described below, the lenders could either refuse to lend funds to us or accelerate the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. We might not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness upon a default. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding against us or collection proceedings with respect to our assets, all of which secure our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility. The credit agreement also contains certain restrictive covenants that limit and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things incur additional debt, sell, lease or transfer our assets, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and investments, guarantee debt or obligations, create liens, enter into transactions with our affiliates and enter into certain merger, consolidation or other reorganizations transactions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand the current or future downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, any of which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt and are not subject to such restrictions. 11 Table of Contents We manufacture a portion of our products which causes us to incur greater fixed costs. Any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We produce a portion of our footwear products at our internal manufacturing facilities in Mexico and Italy. Ownership of these facilities adds fixed costs to our cost structure which are not as easily scalable as variable costs. In addition, the manufacture of our products from the Croslite material requires the use of a complex process and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our profit margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges faced by our third party manufacturers (as noted in the risk factor below), including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers. Our manufacturing may also be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner and could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend heavily on third party manufacturers located outside the U.S. Third party manufacturers located in China and Vietnam produce most of our footwear products. We depend on the ability of these manufacturers to finance the production of goods ordered, maintain adequate manufacturing capacity and meet our quality standards. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our third party manufacturers, and we do not exert direct control over the manufacturers’ operations. As such, we have experienced at times, delays or inabilities to fulfill customer demand and orders, particularly in China. We cannot guarantee that any third party manufacturer will have sufficient production capacity, meet our production deadlines or meet our quality standards. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these third party manufacturers and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third party manufacturers. Foreign manufacturing is subject to additional risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, work stoppages, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuations, changing economic conditions, changes in governmental policies and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our internal manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, more expensive transportation methods, such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs. Increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. In addition, because a large portion of our footwear products is manufactured in China and Vietnam, the possibility of adverse changes in trade or political relations between the U.S. and these countries, political instability in China, increases in labor costs, or adverse weather conditions could significantly interfere with the production and shipment of our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial results. Our third party manufacturing operations must comply with labor, trade and other laws; failure to do so may adversely affect us. We require our third party manufacturers to meet our quality control standards and footwear industry standards for working conditions and other matters, including compliance with applicable labor, environmental and other 12 Table of Contents laws. However, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. A failure by any of our third party manufacturers to adhere to quality standards or labor, environmental and other laws could cause us to incur additional costs for our products, generate negative publicity, damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage customers from buying our products. We also require our third party manufacturers to meet certain product safety standards. A failure by any of our third party manufacturers to adhere to such product safety standards could lead to a product recall which could result in critical media coverage and harm our business and reputation and could cause us to incur additional costs. In addition, if we or our third party manufacturers violate U.S. or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of our imported products, misstatements or errors as to the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. or foreign customs quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions will be imposed upon the importation of foreign produced products in the future or what effect such actions could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We conduct significant business activity outside the U.S. which exposes us to risks of international commerce. A significant portion of our revenues is from foreign sales. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. In addition to foreign manufacturing, we operate retail stores and sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including tariffs, anti-dumping fines, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of products; increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; restrictions on the transfer of funds; restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; changes in governmental policies and regulations; political unrest, changes in law, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws; expropriation and nationalization; difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we are subject to customs laws and regulations with respect to our export and import activity which are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot assure that there will be no control failure around customs enforcement despite the precautions we take. We are currently subject to audits by various Customs Authorities including the U.S. and Mexico. Any failure to comply with customs laws and regulations could be discovered during a U.S. or foreign government customs audit and could result in substantial fines and penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a global company, we have significant revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and intercompany balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We pay the majority of expenses attributable to our foreign operations in the functional currency of the country in which such operations are conducted and pay the majority of our overseas third-party manufacturers in U.S. dollars. Our ability to sell our products in foreign markets and the U.S. dollar value of the sales made in foreign currencies can be significantly influenced by foreign currency fluctuations. A decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could result in lower revenues, product price pressures and increased losses 13 Table of Contents from currency exchange rates. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability as most of our purchases from third party suppliers are denominated in U.S. dollars. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. While we enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts as economic cash flow hedges to reduce our exposure to changes in exchange rates, the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates is dependent on many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our wholesale customers and to the success of such wholesale customers. Our financial success is related to the willingness of our current and prospective wholesale customers to carry our products. We do not have long term contracts with any of our wholesale customers. Sales to our wholesale customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our customers’ orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer. This could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product lines. Changes in the global credit market could also affect our customers’ liquidity and capital resources and their ability to meet payment obligations to us which could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and capital resources. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable aging and record reserves against such receivables as we deem appropriate. Additionally, many of our wholesale customers compete with each other. If they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. Moreover, we compete directly with our wholesale customers by selling our products directly to consumers over the internet and through our company-operated retail locations. If our wholesale customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, our relationships with such customers may weaken and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. As we continue to grow our consumer direct channels (company-operated retail and internet) this issue could be exacerbated. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding our Croslite products, which we use to produce our various footwear products, from multiple suppliers. If the suppliers we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle. We are also subject to market issues related to supply and demand for our raw materials. We may have to pay substantially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a significantly adverse impact on our profit margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of the Croslite material, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner or may need to modify our product characteristics resulting in less favorable market acceptance which could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and counterfeiting of our brands could divert sales, damage our brand image and adversely affect our business. We utilize trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents and trade dress and designs on nearly all of our products. We believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. The laws of some countries, for example, China, do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. We frequently 14 Table of Contents discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging another party’s products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, particularly in some foreign countries, or if we are required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, revenues and results of operations by resulting in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. If our brands are associated with inferior counterfeit reproductions, the integrity and reputation of our brands could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights are typically met with defenses and counterclaims attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary rights and information related to, among other things, the Croslite material and product development, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third party manufacturers and compounding facilities may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use in an effort to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may be ineffective or insufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary rights and information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, our competitors or others may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers’ orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations, consolidation, contraction and closings, as well as fashion trends, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions and other factors affecting demand and possibly impairing our brand image. In addition, sales to our wholesale customers are generally subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand. If we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at discounted prices resulting in lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages which can result in lower sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S.; however, a majority of our cash is generated and held outside of the U.S. The consequential risks of holding cash abroad could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S., but the majority of our cash is generated and held abroad. We generally consider unremitted earnings of subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. to be indefinitely reinvested and it is not our current intent to change this position. Cash held outside of the U.S. is primarily used for the ongoing operations of the business in the locations in which the cash is held. Most of the cash held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S., but under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. In some countries, repatriation of certain foreign balances is restricted by local laws and could have adverse tax consequences if we were to move the cash to another country. Certain countries, including China, may have monetary laws which may limit our ability to utilize cash resources in those countries for operations in other countries. These limitations may affect our ability to fully utilize our cash resources for needs in the U.S. or other countries and may adversely affect our liquidity. Since repatriation of such cash is subject to limitations and may be subject to significant taxation, we cannot be certain that we will be able to repatriate such cash on favorable terms or in a timely manner. If we incur operating losses on a continued 15 Table of Contents basis and require cash that is held in international accounts for use in our U.S. operations, a failure to repatriate such cash in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit that may result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. Starting in November 2007, certain stockholders filed several purported shareholder class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on alleged statements made by us between July 27, 2007 and October 31, 2007. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in complaints filed by investors in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The first complaint was filed in November 2007; several other complaints were filed shortly thereafter. These actions were consolidated and, in September 2008, the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and counsel. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in December 2008. The amended complaint purports to state claims under Section 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Exchange Act on behalf of a class of all persons who purchased our stock between April 2, 2007 and April 14, 2008 (the “Class Period”). The amended complaint alleges that, during the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading public statements about us and our business and prospects and that, as a result, the market price of our stock was artificially inflated. The amended complaint also claims that certain current and former officers and directors traded our stock on the basis of material non-public information. The amended complaint seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the alleged class in an unspecified amount, interest and an award of attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation. On February 28, 2011, the District Court granted motions to dismiss filed by the defendants and dismissed all claims. A final judgment was thereafter entered. Plaintiffs subsequently appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. We and those current and former officers and directors named as defendants have entered into a Stipulation of Settlement with the plaintiffs that would, if approved by the United States District Court for the District of Colorado, resolve all claims asserted against us by the plaintiffs on behalf of the putative class, and plaintiffs’ appeal would be dismissed. Our independent auditor is not a party to the Stipulation of Settlement. The Stipulation of Settlement is subject to customary conditions, including preliminary court approval, and final court approval following notice to stockholders. If the settlement becomes final, all amounts required by the settlement will be paid by our insurers. There can be no assurance that the settlement will be finally approved by the District Court, or that approval by the District Court will, if challenged, be upheld by the Tenth Circuit. We are subject to periodic litigation, which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. From time to time, we are called upon to defend ourselves against lawsuits relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against us. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal variations and are sensitive to weather conditions. As a significant portion of our revenues are attributable to footwear styles that are more suitable for fair weather, we typically experience our highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year, when there is a revenue concentration in countries in the northern hemisphere. While we continue to create new footwear styles that are more suitable for cold weather, the effects of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales can be significant enough to affect our quarterly results which could adversely affect our common stock price. Quarterly results may also fluctuate as a result of other factors, including new style introductions, general economic conditions or 16 Table of Contents changes in consumer preferences. Results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. This could lead to results outside of analyst and investor expectations, which could increase volatility of our stock price. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly and various securities analysts follow our financial results and frequently issue reports on us which include information about our historical financial results as well as their estimates of our future performance. These estimates are based on their own opinions and are often different from management’s estimates or expectations of our business. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. We may fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and associate information. We routinely possess sensitive customer and associate information and, while we believe we have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect that information, if our security procedures and controls were compromised, it could harm our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. In addition, we must successfully integrate any newly hired management personnel within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives. Changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. We have experienced management turnover in recent years. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In some cases, we may be required to pay significant amounts of severance to terminated management employees. Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for our business and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our business. We are in the process of implementing numerous information systems designed to support several areas of our business, including warehouse management, order management, retail point-of-sale and internet point-of-sale as well as various systems that provide interfaces between these systems. These systems are intended to assist in streamlining our operational processes and eliminating certain manual processes. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, as our personnel become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change which could prolong the difficulties we experience with systems transitions and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities and the results of tax audits or litigation could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in 17 Table of Contents countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion and we could face significant adverse impact if our assumptions are incorrect and/or face significant cost to defend our practices from international and U.S. tax authorities. We are regularly subject to, and are currently undergoing, audits by tax authorities in the United States and foreign jurisdictions for prior tax years. For example, we are currently subject to a tax audit in Mexico on the value of imported raw material and have been notified of a $22.0 million penalty. See Part I Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for additional details regarding the Mexican tax audit. In addition, in Brazil we have been assessed $1.1 million in additional sales taxes, excluding penalties and interest, relating to our usage of tax credits for the period May 2009 through April 2010. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and we intend to defend our positions through litigation if necessary, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation is inherently uncertain and could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Moreover, we could be subject to assessments of substantial additional taxes and/or fines or penalties relating to ongoing or future audits. The adverse resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. From time to time, we may invest in business infrastructure, acquisitions of new businesses and expansion of existing businesses, such as our retail operations, which require substantial cash investment and management attention. We believe cost effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. However, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in acquiring or expanding a business. The failure of any significant investment to provide the returns or profitability we expect or the failure to integrate newly acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. Natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our vendors and other suppliers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of us or changes in our management. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 