Risk Factors—Risks Associated with Government Contracts and Regulation.” Backlog At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had total funded backlog of $44.0 million and $33.0 million, respectively. Funded backlog represents orders that have been received for products, contract research and development, or other services for which a contractual agreement is in place and, if from a government agency, the funds have been obligated. Substantially all of our funded backlog is expected to be recognized within twelve months. In addition to funded backlog, we also had unfunded backlog of approximately $200 million at December 31, 2007. Unfunded backlog primarily represents contracts with indefinite quantities, contracts that are subject to renewal options and contracts for which government agencies have not yet obligated funds. The timing of firm orders, if any, from unfunded backlog may vary according to the life of the contracts. Such contracts generally have lives that range from one to five years. 16 Table of Contents Technology Our key technological strengths fall into four principal categories: • developing, purifying and assembling new sensing materials; • developing technologies to enable compact design of analytic instruments; • developing technologies to facilitate the sensing and projection of power at different electromagnetic wavelengths; and • software technologies for devices and networks. Sensing materials Our sensors use new materials with novel characteristics, such as new semiconductors, crystals, polymers, reagents and other recently developed materials. These new materials are extraordinarily sensitive. Some of the materials respond to trace exposures of specific chemical compounds, such as explosives, nerve agents, or biological proteins. Other new materials respond to low-intensity radioactive emissions or specific types of electromagnetic energy, such as specific bands of infrared light. Many of these materials did not exist a few years ago or could not be sufficiently purified or economically assembled into functional structures. These new materials are now the key starting point in our development of extremely compact sensors, imagers and detectors. In order to transform these materials into sensors, imagers and detectors, we must ensure that these materials are precisely powered. We have sought technologies that incorporate innovative, compact and high-speed electrical circuits, amplifiers, power supplies, communications interfaces and embedded operating systems. Many of the new security threats are so diffuse, or move so quickly, that even the best conventional sensors often give off signals with significant static that can be difficult to interpret. We embed sophisticated software into our products that helps separate static from the signal. Our core radiation sensing technology combines advanced sensors (sodium iodide, cadmium-zinc-telluride, lithium-6-fiber and helium) with sophisticated analytical engines powered by multichannel spectrum analyzers and high-speed digital signal processors. We have developed some unique approaches to the design and assembly of the basic sensing materials that improves the ability of our units to accurately distinguish between man-made and natural sources of radioactivity. One of our handheld units, for example, provides simultaneous gamma and neutron radiation detection at very low emission rates (1 microrem/hour). Our explosive detector’s accuracy and sensitivity are derived from a unique amplifying fluorescent polymer, which we use under an exclusive license from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. This amplifying fluorescent polymer dramatically increases the signal strength of the molecules of interest. Our Fido explosive detector, for example, has achieved detection sensitivities as low as 100 parts per quadrillion. Our various chemical detectors incorporate a number of different technologies, including enzyme-based detection, gamma spectroscopy, the same amplifying fluorescent polymer technology at the core of our explosive detectors, and gamma spectrometry adapted from our radiation detectors. Compact design Our engineers have developed very compact, rugged products, suitable for use in the field that perform sophisticated analyses of the sort that would typically require laboratory facilities. Our various biosensors incorporate a number of different technologies, including a very small and efficient air sampler which serves as the front end for our ultraviolet fluorescence interrogation and amplifying fluorescent polymer technologies. Our AirSentinel “biological smoke alarm” uses deep-ultraviolet light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to interrogate samples. Biological proteins fluoresce under this form of deep-ultraviolet illumination. The technology is extremely compact and can be powered by a battery. 17 Table of Contents Another core detection technology allows us to incorporate biologically active proteins and enzymes within plastics and polymers. Our enzyme-in-polymer technology enables us to turn laboratory test protocols and agents into field test kits for a wide range of chemical and biological materials. We are currently completing development of a spray-on formulation using this technology that can indicate the exact location of any contamination, or confirm that decontamination efforts have succeeded. Mass spectrometry is uniquely sensitive and accurate, and is the standard laboratory technology for detecting, differentiating and identifying trace levels of chemical compounds in complex chemical environments. All conventionally designed units, however, are much too large and cumbersome to be deployed outside of a laboratory. By contrast, our miniaturized units incorporate unique cylindrical ion trap technology developed at Purdue University, which we use under exclusive license. This technology has allowed us to build the first truly miniaturized, portable mass spectrometer capable of multiple stages of analysis. The cylindrical ion trap incorporates smaller vacuum systems and power electronics than are required in conventional systems. Software incorporated into the product provides instrument control and data analysis and allows end-users to customize operation to address specific applications. Sensing and projecting power at different electromagnetic wavelengths Our surveillance products sense and project power across a range of electromagnetic wavelengths to enable better surveillance and response. We believe we are a world leader in developing devices and surfaces that allow the tuning of infrared emission, absorption and transmission. Our photonic crystal technology allows precise tuning of the wavelength of infrared light emitted or absorbed by a silicon surface. Our SensorChip product implements this technology in a micro-electro-mechanical system. The SensorChip enables the single-chip gas sensors that are used to detect potentially dangerous gases, such as methane. We believe that we have developed the first commercial ground-level surveillance radar operating in the very high frequency millimeter wave bands. Conventional radar systems operate at much lower frequencies, and are less able to discern small, slow and soft targets. Millimeter wave band radar presents very different technical challenges, requiring fundamentally different signal processing and data analysis, and optimal design of all key components, such as antennas, electrical circuitry, firmware and software. We combine these proprietary circuits with real-time operational and signal processing software. Our millimeter wave band radar technology improves image resolution by fourfold or more over conventional microwave radar, and penetrates light rain, fog, and smoke—conditions that often interfere with infrared technologies. Advanced software algorithms provide object recognition, and can control and direct visible and infrared cameras to point toward radar-identified targets. Our infrared technology consists of the key imaging processing electronics and software to rapidly transform the latest infrared detectors into functioning products. Our pan-and-tilt, forward-looking units operate in the eight to twelve micron spectral range—the infrared band in which humans and animals radiate much of their heat—and wavelengths that readily pass through fog and dust. Our versatile software is incorporated on a modular, scalable, flexible and fully programmable electronics card set that can be used with many detectors. This card set can be readily adapted to interface with new and higher resolution detectors as they are developed by third party vendors. Our cameras can be readily customized to customer specifications. Flexible software, open interfaces, and scalable systems. We favor open interfaces and scalability in all of our products, systems and software. We use standard communication and control protocols. We make it easy for system integrators and end-users to incorporate our products in larger systems, and easy for us to link other vendors’ products with our own. We view this as essential because many new security products are being added to legacy systems. Our security operating systems and video network software, which collect data from large, distributed arrays of sensors and imagers, are extremely robust and stable—a core requirement of all security-related software. At the same time, these are scalable, open-architecture systems that can control and communicate with a very broad 18 Table of Contents range of security hardware, wired and wireless communications networks, and support hardware (such as camera platforms, floodlights, generators, batteries, solar panels, and fuel tanks). Our objective is to make our software the industry-standard security operating system. The software in our surveillance towers, for example, can monitor, control and integrate distributed arrays of cameras, sensors, high-intensity spotlights, fuel levels in power generators, battery levels, backup solar panels and communication systems. We integrate our infrared cameras with radar, acoustic and other sensors provided by other manufacturers. These cameras can easily link to large, integrated security systems through our Internet Protocol control and video interface. In addition, our AirSentinel product is easily connected to existing control and alarm networks in buildings. The AirSentinel ‘s modular architecture also makes it easy to network with chemical, radiological and explosive detectors supplied by us or other vendors. We also embed a great deal of software directly in our products. Highly sensitive sensors and imagers require advanced algorithms and high-speed processors to separate signal from noise, and to transform large streams of raw data into readily accessible information. Our infrared cameras, for example, produce a high- resolution picture from the signal generated by a focal plane array. The software that does this incorporates a deep understanding of how focal plane arrays actually operate in thermally noisy environments. Our software skills are tied to our understanding of high-tech sensing and imaging products, on the one hand, and the practical imperatives of supervision and control on the other. Intellectual Property We rely on our patents, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, licenses, copyrights, trademarks and other proprietary rights to protect our intellectual property. Our Detection segment has 66 issued or pending patents and 106 provisional patents. Our Surveillance segment has 23 issued or pending patents and 13 provisional patents. We cannot guarantee that our pending patent applications will be approved. We focus our patent efforts in the United States and, when justified by cost and strategic importance, we file corresponding foreign patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. Much of our intellectual property resides in software, firmware, trade secrets and the technical know-how of our employees. The design of compact, efficient radars, for example, is a specialized craft, and we owe the success of our radar products in large part to the skills of our design engineers. The same principle is true for our networking and software systems. We cannot assure you that the measures we have implemented to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property are sufficient or will be successful. Competitors may copy our technologies or products, or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, without our permission. Competitors may also recruit our employees who have access to our proprietary technologies. Intellectual property litigation is often extremely expensive, and the cost of enforcing our patents and other intellectual property may be burdensome or prohibitive. Many companies and inventors in the technology markets in which we operate file patents. In addition, these companies and inventors may assert other types of intellectual property rights. In the future, others may allege that we are infringing on their intellectual property. Lawsuits stemming from such allegations could limit our sales, expose us to significant liability for damages, force us to shoulder significant litigation costs and consume management time and other resources. Research and Development In 2007 and 2006, we have invested approximately $20.6 million and $14.5 million for internally funded research and development activities and have recognized revenue of approximately $31.0 million and $25.7 million under contracts which provide external funding to conduct research and development, respectively. In 2005 we invested $5.0 million in internally funded research and development and recognized revenue of approximately $10.4 million under contracts which provide external funding for research and development. Such 19 Table of Contents 2005 amounts represent internal and external funding from the respective acquisition dates of our acquired businesses through the end of 2005. We conduct research and development for programs we believe will advance our technology and products and strengthen our leadership position in the security market. We have received funding support from a wide variety of federal agencies including the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (chemical agent detection), National Institute of Standards and Technology and the National Science Foundation (photonic crystals), DARPA and DHS (biohazard and explosive sensors), DHS and the Air Force Research Labs (high-power lasers), the Army Night Vision Labs (surveillance towers) and the Naval Air Warfare Center (millimeter-wave radar). Our participation in these and other development programs has culminated in the development of a significant number of commercial products. In general, our U.S. government contracts permit us to retain all rights in patents emerging from the funded research and development, subject to the U.S. government’s non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable paid-up license to practice, or to have practiced on its behalf, throughout the world, any technology developed in the performance of such contracts. In addition, the government possesses the right to allow others to use such technology if, among other things, we fail expeditiously to bring products to market or commercialize products based on such technology. A number of our technologies and key employees came out of the science and engineering departments of leading universities. We have maintained significant connections with leading academic personnel working in fields relevant to our technology and research and development efforts and often hire these academic personnel as consultants. We maintain offices in close proximity to these universities and contract to use their laboratory instruments and tools. We participate with these universities in major government-funded development programs. We plan to continue to seek government research and development funding for the development of core enabling technologies. We plan to focus our own research and development spending on turning technologies into commercial products, improving product performance and integrating our technologies into multi-function products. Manufacturing We manufacture components and products at 12 facilities in the United States and at our facilities in Canada and Germany. We generally conduct the specialized manufacturing that is specific to our technology and core expertise, such as polymer and chemical synthesis, and perform final assembly and quality assurance testing at our own facilities. We seek to avoid any single-supplier dependence, and have identified, or are in the process of identifying, qualified alternative suppliers of critical components. We typically outsource to unaffiliated third parties mold fabrication and plastics injection molding, most circuit board manufacturing and assembly, antenna manufacturing, optics manufacturing, wiring of certain electronic systems and other more routine operations. Unaffiliated third parties also supply specific components of some of our products, such as electrical components and detectors for infrared cameras. While our customers define the performance criteria or characteristics of our products, we have established internal procedures for final test and calibration of key devices and components, and in some cases the calibration process itself is a core, proprietary technology. Although we have sufficient manufacturing capacity for our existing operations, we expect that we will need to expand some of our manufacturing capacity as our sales increase. Our operating units plan to share manufacturing expertise and resources in the future, and consolidate some of their outsourcing contracts. We believe this will increase our manufacturing efficiency and reduce costs. Competition Our diverse product portfolio places us in competition with a wide variety of companies in the homeland security, defense and industrial sectors. Our markets are highly competitive and dynamic. Our many competitors include both a wide variety of small companies with single-point solutions or products and a number of very large and well-established enterprises, including divisions and subsidiaries of Axis AB, BAE Systems, plc, Canberra Industries, Inc., DRS Technologies, Inc., FLIR Systems Inc., General Electric Company, Goodrich 20 Table of Contents Corporation, Honeywell International, Inc., L-1 Identity Solutions Inc., L-3 Communications CE Holdings, Inc., Nice Systems Ltd., RAE Systems, Inc., SAIC, Inc., Smiths Detection and United Technologies Corporation. We do not compete with any one large competitor across the full range of our product portfolio. Many of our competitors have much greater research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing and financial resources than we have. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter our markets and as new products and technologies are introduced. We expect our markets to remain highly competitive and dynamic and to reflect rapid technological evolution and continuously evolving customer requirements. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors including our ability to: • develop, adapt and apply new technologies to meet customer needs; • develop products that reduce costs, that are easy to deploy and that can be integrated into larger systems and networks; • establish and maintain relationships with key government customers, including government agencies and prime contractors on government projects; and • recruit and retain qualified personnel, particularly technical personnel. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 870 full-time employees, of which 711 were located in the United States, 92 were located in Canada and 59 were located in Germany. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 569 of our employees were primarily engaged in engineering, research and development and production, approximately 91 of our employees were primarily engaged in sales and marketing, and approximately 198 of our employees were primarily engaged in operations, general and administration, quality assurance and customer service. Regulatory A number of our advanced technology products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations, which have certain registration, licensing and recordkeeping requirements for sales and transfers to foreign persons. These regulations include the U.S. Department of State’s International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and the U.S. Department of Treasury’s economic sanctions regulations. Another key law in this regulatory field is the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We have a compliance system to identify those products and technologies subject to certain export control regulatory restrictions and, where required, we obtain authorization from the relevant federal agency for sales to foreign buyers or for technology transfers to foreign consultants, companies, universities, investment partners or foreign national employees. Our products are utilized by all branches of the U.S. military and by some foreign armed forces, and much of our research is funded by DoD agencies such as DARPA and DTRA. Many of the products we develop through our research and development program are characterized as “defense articles” on the ITAR’s U.S. Munitions List, and we are registered with the U.S. Department of State as both a manufacturer and exporter of such munitions items. Other products and technologies with dual-use military and commercial application, such as chemical detectors for environmental safety purposes, are controlled under the EAR’s Commerce Control List, and we have export compliance systems for determining the proper export licensing requirements for such products and technologies. Under U.S. sanctions laws, we are prohibited from exporting our products, technology or services to embargoed countries such as Cuba, Iran, Syria or Sudan, or to terrorist-supporting entities, and our compliance system is structured to address these restrictions as well. Federal law prohibits the payment of bribes or other corrupt payments to get or retain business, and we are mindful of such prohibitions on corrupt payments. Our overseas subsidiaries must abide by the applicable provisions of U.S. export control law and the related export control laws of the countries in which they are located. The U.S. export control laws and regulations place 21 Table of Contents licensing restrictions on transfers of technology to our foreign subsidiaries, and export licenses or other appropriate authorizations are obtained, as appropriate, from the U.S. Department of State or the U.S. Department of Commerce, when required by law. Compliance with U.S. export control laws and regulations is a challenge for any high technology company involved in export activities. An effective compliance program includes periodic internal auditing and monitoring of export transactions. In any acquisition, the successor company must ensure that the acquired firm is complying with the requirements of U.S. export control regulations and must see that deficiencies are promptly identified and corrected. We have such a practice and establish export compliance standards for all of our subsidiaries, while recognizing the special compliance demands necessitated by certain sensitive technologies or workforce makeup. Violations of any of the various U.S. export control laws can result in significant civil or criminal penalties, or even a denial of export privileges. We recognize that an effective compliance program can help protect the reputation and relationship of a regulated company with the federal agencies administering these laws. Each of the regulatory agencies administering these laws has a voluntary disclosure program that offers the possibility of significantly reduced penalties, if any are applicable, and we have utilized these agency disclosure procedures as part of our overall compliance policy and system of internal controls. Under the “SAFETY Act” provisions of The Homeland Security Act of 2002, and its implementing regulations, the federal government provides certain liability limitations and a presumption that the “government contractor” defense applies if the Department of Homeland Security “designates” or “certifies” technologies or products as “qualified anti-terrorism technologies,” and if certain other conditions apply. We may seek to qualify some or all of our products and technologies under the SAFETY Act’s provisions in order to obtain such liability protections, but there is no guarantee that the Department of Homeland Security will designate or certify our products and technologies as a qualified anti-terrorism technology. To date, our Fido Portable Explosives Detector has been designated as a qualified anti-terrorism technology, but our other products have been sold without such qualification, and we may continue to sell our products and technologies without such qualification. To the extent we do so, we will not be entitled to the benefit of the SAFETY Act’s limitations on tort liability, or to any U.S. government indemnification. Additional Information We file registration statements, periodic and current reports, proxy statements, and other materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Office of Public Reference at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including our filings. Other than the information expressly set forth in this Form 10-K, the information contained or referred to on our website is not part of this annual report. We make available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our website (www.icxt.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations and Corporate Structure Our future performance may be difficult to predict due to our limited operating history and the nature of our business. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict our future performance. We were incorporated in 2003 and commenced operations as a holding company in 2004. However, most of our business is based on acquisitions that we have completed since June 2005. We have had a limited period of time to integrate and manage our business, which increases the possibility that we will encounter new or unexpected difficulties in our future operations or fail to achieve expected benefits from these acquisitions. We may also have difficulty forecasting our future results because our business is affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, including fluctuations caused by new security threats, new products introduced by our competitors and customer order variations or cancellations. If we underestimate demand and build too little inventory, we could lose sales opportunities and disappoint customers. If we overestimate demand and build too much inventory, we could consume working capital unnecessarily and experience inventory write-offs. Our business depends on the development of markets for detection and surveillance products and solutions. Our products and services are designed to address the markets for detection, surveillance and integrated solutions. Our products and services are targeted to both governmental and the private sector. These markets and the types of products and services sold in these markets are emerging. Our ability to grow will depend in part on the rate at which markets for our products develop and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands in these markets. In particular, our business depends on our ability to offer a broader range of products and services to meet demand for integrated solutions. In addition, geopolitical developments, terrorist attacks and government mandates may cause sharp fluctuations in the demand for our products. A substantial portion of our future sales will depend on the success of products that we have introduced recently. It is too early to predict how commercially successful these products may be. Some of them define new market categories with no historical record of demand and in which demand may develop slowly. Some of our new products are still undergoing trials, or have too short of a history of operation in the field to establish evidence that they meet long-term customer needs. This may slow the adoption of these products by security conscious customers that demand proof of long term reliability. Some of our products could encounter unanticipated problems in deployment and use, or when attempts are made to integrate them into existing systems and operations. Our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be significantly limited if our new products fail to gain market acceptance. A substantial portion of our revenues depends on sales to the U.S. government and could be affected by changes in federal funding levels. Agencies and departments of the U.S. government account for a substantial portion of our revenues from product sales and substantially all of our revenues from research and development contracts. We are counting on significant revenues from U.S. government contracts for the foreseeable future. U.S. government programs are limited by budgetary constraints and are subject to uncertain future funding levels that could result in the termination of programs. A decline in security-related government spending, or a shift away from our offerings or programs that we address, could hurt our sales, put pressure on our prices and reduce our revenues and margins. 23 Table of Contents We rely in part on original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and distribution partners to sell some of our products, and we may be adversely affected if those parties do not actively promote our products or pursue installations that use our products. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to partners, including OEMs, systems integrators, distributors and resellers. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract and may be subject to termination at any time. Even where these relationships are formalized in a detailed contract, the agreements can often be terminated with little or no notice and are subject to periodic amendment. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our partners devote to activities on their behalf. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain of our products. However, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful. A substantial portion of our revenues depends on sales to prime contractors and system integrators. We rely on a substantial portion of our revenues on contracts in which we act as a subcontractor to other contractors, typically prime contractors and system integrators who sell directly to government agencies or private customers. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived approximately 38%, 31%, and 17%, respectively, of our revenues from these contracts. We expect to continue to depend on these relationships for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our sales will suffer if these contractors and system integrators fail to compete successfully against their competitors, if government agencies cut relevant spending, or if these contractors and system integrators purchase products from our competitors, or develop competing products of their own, or reduce their purchases from us for other reasons. Our ability to sell to customers who prefer to work with large system integrators will depend on our ability to develop and maintain strong relationships with the large system integrators. Furthermore, when existing subcontracts based on small-business status expire, our subcontracting revenues may decline because prime contractors and system integrators will no longer be able to fulfill targets for small-business purchases by buying products from us or our subsidiaries. If we do not successfully expand our direct sales and service organizations and partnering arrangements, we may not be able to increase our sales or adequately support our customers. We sell substantially all of our services and license substantially all of our products in part through our direct sales organization. Our future success depends on substantially increasing the size and scope of our direct sales force and partnering arrangements, both domestically and internationally. We expect to face intense competition for personnel and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional qualified sales personnel on a timely basis. Moreover, given the large-scale deployment required by some of our customers, we anticipate the need to hire and retain a number of highly-trained customer service and support personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase the size of our customer service and support organization on a timely basis to provide the high quality of support required by our customers. Failure to add additional sales and customer service representatives could result in our inability to increase sales and support our customers. The lengthy sales cycles of our products may cause our revenues to fluctuate substantially. Customers evaluating our products must often make very difficult choices about product capabilities and costs. Many of our customers buy our products to implement or enhance large security projects. Our larger customers take longer to evaluate our products and place new orders. For these and other reasons, our products typically have long sales cycles. Sales are often delayed or cancelled for reasons that we cannot control. Delays and cancellations could significantly affect revenues reported for any given financial quarter. 24 Table of Contents We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources. We face substantial competition in the advanced security technology industry. Many companies are actively developing and marketing detection, surveillance and systems and software products that compete against our products, or may soon do so. Our competitors include very large and experienced enterprises, including BAE Systems, plc, Canberra Industries, Inc., DRS Technologies, Inc., FLIR Systems Inc., General Electric Company, Goodrich Corporation, Honeywell International, Inc., L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., RAE Systems, Inc., SAIC, Inc., Smiths Industries, Ltd. and United Technologies Corporation. Our competitors also include many smaller companies, including companies established to pursue new and emerging technologies. Our competitors may successfully develop technologies that outperform our technologies, respond better to customer requirements, cost less or otherwise gain greater market acceptance. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources, greater name recognition, a larger base of customers and longer standing customer relationships than we have. Our larger competitors may be able to better manage large or complex contracts, maintain a broader geographic presence, compete more effectively on price, or provide a greater level of customer support. Our smaller competitors typically focus on fewer products than we do, and they are often well entrenched in their chosen markets. Any of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technology, market developments or pursue new sales opportunities more effectively that we can. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully and quickly. We may lose our competitive position if we fail to innovate and develop new products quickly. Advanced security technologies are evolving rapidly, product life cycles are short and technologies can become obsolete. Our ability to compete will depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, sell and support new products and enhancements quickly and cost effectively. Our business will depend on how well we respond to evolving government and industry standards, and changing customer requirements. The lack of standardization in our industry may impede market acceptance of innovative products that we successfully develop. If, for any of these or other reasons, any of our technologies fail to gain acceptance in the market, we will not recoup our development costs, and we will have to attempt to develop new technologies and products. We cannot assure that we can do so successfully, cost effectively or quickly enough. Some of our customers and operations are located outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional international risks. We conduct some of our business with and through companies located outside the United States. We have manufacturing facilities in several foreign countries including Germany and Canada. As a result of our international operations and sales, we face a number of challenges, including: • increased complexity and costs of managing and staffing international operations; • compliance with foreign technical standards; • compliance with domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including import and export control laws, tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of import and export licenses; • longer and more difficult collection of receivables; • limited protection of our intellectual property and limited ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • unanticipated changes in foreign and domestic legal and regulatory requirements, including tax regulations; and • foreign currency exchange fluctuations relating to our international operating activities. 25 Table of Contents Because we anticipate that we will continue to depend on companies operating in various countries around the world for a significant part of our revenues and growth, these risks and issues that we cannot anticipate could adversely affect our ability to conduct business outside of the United States and our results of operations. Our business has inherent operational risks that cannot be adequately covered by insurance or indemnity, and our products and technologies may not qualify for protection under the SAFETY Act. We may face unanticipated risks of legal liability for damages caused by the actual or alleged failure of technologies or services that we supply. Our products may be deployed in response to an emergency or terrorist attack, which may increase our exposure to third-party claims. Many of our technologies are unproven. We may face liabilities related to these products. While we have attempted to secure appropriate insurance coverage at appropriate cost, it is impossible to insure against all risks that inhere in our industry, nor can we assure you that our insurers will pay a particular claim, or that we will be able to maintain coverage at reasonable rates in the future. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess or not otherwise covered by indemnity or insurance could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which increase our costs in the event of a claim. Under the “SAFETY Act” provisions of The Homeland Security Act of 2002, the federal government provides liability limitations and the “government contractor” defense applies if the Department of Homeland Security “designates” or “certifies” technologies or products as “qualified anti-terrorism technologies,” and if certain other conditions apply. We may seek to qualify some or all of our products and technologies under the SAFETY Act’s provisions in order to obtain such liability protections, but there is no guarantee that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will designate or certify our products and technologies as a qualified anti-terrorism technology. Our Fido Portable Explosives Detector has been designated as a qualified anti-terrorism technology, but our other products have been sold without such qualification, and we may continue to sell our products and technologies without such qualification. To the extent we do so, we will not be entitled to the benefit of the SAFETY Act’s cap on tort liability or U.S. government indemnification. Any indemnification that the U.S. government may provide may not cover certain potential claims. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and as a result we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception. We had consolidated operating losses of approximately $36.4 million in 2007, $113.1 million in 2006 and $14.4 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $177.5 million. We expect to incur significant additional expenses for the expansion and integration of our businesses, including expenditures for sales, marketing and manufacturing. As a public company, we also expect to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We also expect to incur additional expenses to expand our research and development programs, and in developing new products and services we may obtain through acquisitions. As a result, we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business, we are unable to guarantee whether or when we will achieve profitability. If our revenues do not increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater rate than our revenues, we will not become profitable. Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A number of other factors may cause our consolidated operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly or annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future operating results. We expect our consolidated revenues and expenses to fluctuate, making it difficult to predict our future operating results. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • demand in the markets that we serve; 26 Table of Contents • our ability to define, design and release new products that meet customer needs, and to do so quickly and cost effectively; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • the forecasting, scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers; • the timing, performance and pricing of new product introductions by our competitors; • variations in the performance of our businesses; • the timing and availability of adequate manufacturing capacity from our manufacturing suppliers; • our ability to forecast demand in the markets that we serve; • the mix of products that we sell; • the length of our sales cycles; • the lack of backlog of orders for our products; • liquidity and cash flow of our distributors and end-market customers; • the timing of our acquisitions; • general economic conditions in the countries where we operate or our products are used; and • changes in accounting principles or practices, exchange rates, interest rates, tax rates and tax withholding. Any of the above factors, many of which are beyond our control, could significantly harm our business and results of operations. The results of a prior quarter or annual period should not be relied upon as an indicator of future operating performance. We may have difficulty scaling production to large volumes. If we are unable to meet demand or efficiently increase production, customers may turn to products offered by competitors and our operating results could be harmed. We could have substantial difficulty dealing with rapid growth. If demand for our products increases rapidly, we will need to expand internal production capacity or implement additional outsourcing. Success in developing, manufacturing and supporting products manufactured in small volumes does not guarantee comparable success in operations conducted on a larger scale. Modifying our facilities to increase production capacity may delay delivery of our products. Manufacturing efficiencies, yields and product quality may decline as production volumes increase. In addition, component costs, overhead and other production costs may rise. If we are unable to meet the demand of our customers and deliver products quickly and cost effectively, customers may turn to our competitors. The costs associated with implementing new manufacturing technologies, methods and processes, including the purchase of new equipment, and any resulting delays, inefficiencies and loss of sales, could harm our results of operations. We purchase certain component parts from a limited number of third-party suppliers, and are therefore subject to limitations in supply which could result in delays of product shipments and damage our business and operating results. We currently purchase component parts used in the manufacture of our products from a limited number of third-party suppliers and currently rely on a single source of supply in some cases, including for certain semiconductor components. We depend on these suppliers to meet our needs. Moreover, we depend on the quality of the products supplied to us over which we have limited control. From time to time in the future, we may encounter shortages and delays or transportation problems in obtaining components, or defects in the components we purchase. There may be interruptions in the manufacture of our products and we might not be able to supply products in a timely manner or with the quality required by our customers, and our revenues and customer relationships could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to operate and grow our business effectively will depend on retaining key employees and management, and hiring skilled and experienced personnel. If we lose the services of any key personnel or are unable to hire additional personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success has been highly dependent on the experience, relationships and technical knowledge of our key senior management and technical employees. Our future will depend on our ability to retain their services. The loss of key employees could harm development and sales of our products, slow our growth and otherwise harm our business. Our ability to operate and grow our business also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientists, engineers and other technical personnel. We face intense competition for the services of such employees. The nature of our business also makes it difficult for us to hire employees who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States. If we fail to retain and motivate our current employees, or fail to attract new employees with comparable skills, we will be unable to enhance existing products and develop new ones, and our business will suffer. Hiring difficulties may also force us to incur higher than anticipated costs in recruiting, relocating and compensating employees who have the skills we need, and these increased costs may hurt our margins and limit our ability to make necessary hires. Several of our officers may have divided responsibilities which could divert management time and create potential conflicts of interest. Our chief executive officer, Hans Kobler, serves on the investment advisory committee of Digital Power Capital, LLC, which is indirectly our largest stockholder and an affiliate of Wexford VI Advisors LLC, and has an interest in the profits earned on certain Wexford investments, including Wexford’s investment in us. Some of our other executives may serve on outside boards from time to time, as well. These divided responsibilities divert management time from our business and could create potential conflicts of interest. Wexford Capital, LLC and its affiliates, our principal stockholders, beneficially own and control a significant amount of our common stock, giving them substantial influence over our corporate transactions and other matters. Their interests may conflict with yours, and the concentration of ownership of our common stock will limit your influence and the influence of our other stockholders. Wexford and its affiliates beneficially own and control approximately 65% of our outstanding common stock. Wexford is able to exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents, mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. As long as this concentration of ownership persists, it is unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of Wexford could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, or could otherwise delay or prevent a change in control transaction or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We may divest assets to reflect changes in our strategy. From time to time, we have divested businesses and assets which we have determined no longer fit our strategy. For example, we sold three businesses in 2007 and one of our businesses in 2006. We may undertake divestiture transactions when we believe there is a financial or strategic benefit to us in doing so. Such divestitures, should they occur, may result in losses. There may also be risks, costs and liabilities that we incur or retain in connection with these divestitures. We may be unable to successfully divest non-strategic assets and, if we incorrectly evaluate the strategic fit and valuation of divested businesses or assets, we may forego opportunities that would otherwise have benefited our business. 28 Table of Contents Our strategy for future acquisitions may be costly to implement and difficult to manage. We intend to continue to grow our business through acquisitions of additional companies. Successful execution of our acquisition strategy will depend on many factors including locating suitable companies, negotiating acceptable terms, successfully consummating the acquisitions and obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. We may incorrectly assess new businesses or technologies that we do acquire, fail to realize anticipated benefits from these acquisitions or fail to exploit anticipated opportunities. Since December 31, 2006, we have sold three previously acquired companies that no longer aligned with our strategic plan. In addition, we may face difficulties retaining qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired businesses and operations into our existing infrastructure. We also may enter markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or incur future impairment charges and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our acquisition strategy, we intend to evaluate transactions that are large in relation to our current size. One or more such transactions, should it occur, may entail risks that are currently unforeseen. A large acquisition or similar transaction could entail fundamental changes to the nature of our business and assets, and could result in changes in our strategic direction that may ultimately prove unsuccessful. Our acquisition strategy may require more capital and result in more expenses than we anticipate, including greater than anticipated acquisition purchase prices and operating and other acquisition-related expenses. Our acquisition strategy depends in part on negotiating appropriate acquisition contracts, and we may fail to anticipate or provide for unknown or unanticipated events and incur costs arising from litigation of acquisition-related disputes. There also may be costs and liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each company or business that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future. If acquisition purchase prices, liabilities and transaction costs exceed our estimates, we may need to raise more capital by incurring debt or issuing more stock, which may significantly reduce the equity interests of our stockholders. We may have difficulty integrating our businesses. Our company was formed by acquiring a number of geographically and technologically diverse businesses, and we continue to seek to selectively acquire companies or assets that we believe will complement or extend our existing businesses. Integrating our acquisitions is a difficult, complex, time-consuming and expensive process that has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and financial resources. We have encountered, and may encounter in the future, risks associated with the integration of our acquired businesses, such as: • difficulty coordinating geographically dispersed operations, workforces and corporate cultures; • difficulty integrating our operational, financial and management information systems, internal controls and reporting systems as we seek to establish uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across our company; • increased operating expenses resulting from management, transaction and other costs associated with our acquisition and integration activities; • exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or assets; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business matters; • loss of key employees, suppliers and customers of our acquired businesses; • potential conflicts between business cultures; • disruption of ongoing business; 29 Table of Contents • failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology; and • failure to realize the potential of acquired technologies, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights. In addition, the companies we have acquired have historically operated independently and have had only limited opportunity to collaborate with each other. Part of our business strategy is to allow each company to maintain a high degree of operational autonomy while integrating certain management, administrative and sales functions. Accordingly, we may have difficulty integrating businesses that operate independently from one another into our corporate structure. If we fail to successfully integrate our businesses, we may not be able to achieve operating economies or synergies that help reduce expenses or increase revenues, and we may not be able to broaden our product offering in a timely manner to remain competitive. If we fail to maintain an accurate system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related requirements will be costly and will place a burden on our management. We currently have only limited experience operating with the internal controls and procedures required of a public company. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and where appropriate improving our internal controls and procedures in anticipation of being subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management will be required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and include a management report on our internal control over financial reporting, along with a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or any other problems with our financial systems or internal controls, could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information or failure to comply with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (NOLs) to offset future taxable income. We may have undergone an ownership change in the past in connection with issuances of our stock in financings and acquisitions. The existing NOLs of some of our subsidiaries currently will be subject to limitations arising from ownership changes prior to their acquisition by us. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. If we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our backlog, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. There can be no assurances that our backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because our clients may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options. Our backlog represents sales value of firm orders for products and services not yet delivered and, for long term executed contractual arrangements (contracts, subcontracts, and customer commitments), the estimated future sales value of estimated product shipments, transactions processed and services to be provided over the term of the contractual arrangements, including renewal options expected to be exercised. For contracts 30 Table of Contents with indefinite quantities backlog reflects estimated quantities based on current activity levels. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues the receipt of which require future government appropriation, option exercise by our clients and/or is subject to contract modification or termination. At December 31, 2007, our backlog approximated $44.0 million, the majority of which is estimated to be realized in the following twelve months. These estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts, and we believe such estimates to be reasonable. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our backlog, our operations could be harmed and our future revenues could be significantly reduced. Our success and competitive position depend significantly on our ability to obtain and protect intellectual property. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights would impair our ability to compete effectively and defend ourselves from any third party claims that we are infringing others’ intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property. For example, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners and have controlled access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. We intend to continue filing patent applications to protect most of the new processes and technologies that we develop. However, we anticipate that patent protection will not be available for some of these processes or technologies. Failure to protect our intellectual property could affect our ability to secure additional contracts or preserve market advantages when we commercialize our products. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent challenges to, or the invalidation or circumvention of, our existing intellectual property rights; • prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around any patents that may be issued to us; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or their release into the public domain; or • result in valid patents, including international patents, from any of our pending applications. Others may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technologies without our consent. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our technologies is difficult. There is a significant risk that our customers or their end-user customers may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technologies without our consent. We may find it necessary to litigate against others, including our customers, to protect our intellectual property and to challenge the validity and scope of the proprietary rights asserted by others, and we could face counterclaims. Legal disputes with customers could substantially harm our relationships and sales. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may already be infringing without knowing it. We may face additional liability when we agree to indemnify our customers against third party infringement. If a third party establishes that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products, services, or manufacturing processes, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. We may then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms we may be required to discontinue 31 Table of Contents products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be liable for significant damages. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, the litigation may be costly and time consuming, and may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The U.S. government’s right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property. However, we do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies developed by us or to prohibit third party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. government. The U.S. government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under U.S. government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof, but we cannot assure you that we could successfully do so. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. Our subsidiaries have not consistently sought patent protection or registered our trademarks outside the United States, which may impair our ability to use or protect our technology and brand in foreign jurisdictions. The laws of some foreign countries, including countries in which we have sold and will continue to sell our products, protect proprietary rights less broadly than do the laws of the United States. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights in such countries, and there is a risk that we will encounter similar problems. If our competitors in these countries copy our technology without our permission, our sales and operations will be harmed. Our business is subject to environmental regulation that could result in compliance costs. Any violations or liability under environmental laws could harm our business. We are subject to environmental and safety laws and regulations governing the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and imposing liability for the cleanup of contamination from these substances. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these substances or wastes, and, in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. In addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. The nature of our business may subject us to the risk of litigation. The markets for our products and services are competitive and may be subject to significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims, contract claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our current plans for financing are subject to the changing conditions of financial markets. Our ability to obtain additional financing on commercially favorable terms, or at all, is subject to the changing conditions of the financial markets, some of which have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the sub-prime lending market. An increase in the cost of financing, or the inability to obtain financing at all, may limit our ability to pursue further acquisitions, to fund operating losses and investments in research and product development, production facilities and sales infrastructure, and to provide additional working capital for our businesses. 32 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Government Contracts and Regulation The U.S. government may terminate or modify its existing contracts with us or with government contractors for which we are a subcontractor. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts and subcontracts thereunder, which affect how we do business as a contractor or subcontractor to U.S. government customers and which may impose additional expenses on our business. There are inherent risks in contracting with the U.S. government. The U.S. government can typically terminate, reduce orders under or otherwise modify any of its contracts with us for its convenience (i.e., without cause) whether or not we have failed to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. In such case, the government would not be required to pay us for the lost profits for the unperformed work. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and harm our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition to unfavorable termination provisions, our U.S. government contracts and related regulations contain provisions that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract and control and potentially prohibit the export of our services and associated materials. U.S. government contracts may also be terminated if Congress fails to provide funds for the contract. Our business is subject to laws and regulations that are more restrictive because we are a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. government. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. government, we are subject to various laws and regulations that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-government contractors, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation and its supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, and the Truth in Negotiations Act and various other laws, which require certain certifications and disclosures. These laws and regulations, among other things: • require that we obtain and maintain material governmental authorizations and approvals to conduct our business as it is currently conducted; • require certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; • impose rules that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; • restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and • impose requirements relating to ethics and business practices, which carry penalties for noncompliance ranging from monetary fines and damages to loss of the ability to do business with the U.S. government as a prime contractor or subcontractor. In addition, we are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against unauthorized access by foreigners and others to classified and other sensitive information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, our U.S. government customers could terminate, or decide not to renew, our contracts, and such a situation could also impair our ability to obtain new contracts and subcontracts. The government may also change its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. 33 Table of Contents We may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required for us to export our products and we may incur regulatory penalties for past compliance failings of our acquired companies. We must obtain a license from the U.S. government before we may export certain products or technologies from the United States. We cannot be certain that we will obtain any licenses required to export our products to foreign customers or receive authorization from the U.S. government for sales to foreign governments. Failure to receive required licenses or authorizations in a timely manner or at all will limit our ability to export our products and could reduce our revenues. Any seizure or delay in shipment of our products for failure to obtain a required export license could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Export control laws may also inhibit the free interchange of technical discussions among our employees. Absent license authorization from the appropriate agency, technologies related to our military or dual-use products cannot be discussed with our foreign national employees who are not permanent residents, nor with our foreign subsidiaries. Licensing requirements may delay product development and other engineering or sales activities. In addition, many of our subsidiaries had not adopted formal export compliance programs prior to being acquired by us. For example, two of our subsidiaries engaged in research and development activities that involved the sharing of technical information with foreign national employees related to the development of explosives detectors and nerve gas sensors. This early development work occurred without license approvals and prior to our acquisition of these companies. These subsidiaries have now identified possible gaps in compliance, have made voluntary disclosures to the U.S. Department of State, and have adopted compliance measures to address compliance deficiencies. Export control agencies are authorized to impose monetary penalties or even to suspend export privileges. While such actions have not been taken against our company to date, such risks exist in this highly regulated field, and we cannot entirely eliminate the possibility that such agency action may occur in the future. We are subject to audits by the U.S. government which could adversely affect our business. U.S. government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors to monitor performance, cost allocations, cost accounting and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Since some of our contracts are cost plus a fixed fee, the U.S. government has the right to audit our costs even after job completion and after we have booked the corresponding revenue. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allowed or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs that have already been reimbursed must be refunded. While we intend to implement uniform procurement and compliance programs for all of our business, we may be subject to more risks from these audits until we are able to implement such a program effectively. Notwithstanding current compliance, we may be responsible for the lack of compliance, if any, in the past by the companies we have acquired or acquire in the future. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries, or investigations may involve significant expense and divert the attention of our management. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, damages, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. In addition, our reputation could be seriously harmed by allegations of impropriety, even if unfounded. Our business may increasingly depend upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. We may bid for U.S. government contracts that require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and require us or our subsidiaries to maintain certain facility security clearances in compliance with DoD and other government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves 34 Table of Contents a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances, or if our employees who hold security clearances stop working for us, we may face delays in fulfilling contracts, or be unable to fulfill or secure new contracts, with any customer involved in classified work. Any breach of security for which we are responsible could seriously harm our business, damage our reputation and make us ineligible to work on any classified programs. Cost over-runs on our contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. Certain of our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to fixed prices, in which we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur. Consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are ordinarily absorbed by us. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable and allocable costs and ordinarily paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. We may not be able to obtain reimbursement for any costs that exceed the contract limits or are not allowable or allocable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations. Under each type of contract our financial condition and operating results could be affected materially and adversely if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs we incur in performing under the contract. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and we cannot assure you that the price of our shares will not decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • political, military and security developments in the United States and worldwide; • the development of fundamentally new detection, surveillance, active denial and systems and software technologies; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings; and • general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our business. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the availability of a large number of shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in subsequent stock offerings. As of December 31, 2007, we had 33,680,892 shares of 35 Table of Contents common stock outstanding and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue 250,000,000 shares of common stock. A majority of our current stockholders are subject to agreements with the underwriters that restrict their ability to transfer their stock for 180 days after our initial public offering on November 7, 2007. Lehman Brothers Inc., on behalf of the underwriters, may in its sole discretion and at any time waive the restrictions on transfer in these agreements during this period. After these agreements expire, approximately 28,199,682 of these shares will be eligible for sale in the public market subject to the applicable restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2007, we had options to purchase a total of 3,098,641 shares outstanding, of which 2,483,326 were vested. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 591,459 shares of unvested restricted stock awards and restricted stock units, and warrants to purchase 375,552 shares of our common stock outstanding. At December 31, 2007, we had an additional 18,187,819 of share-based awards available for grant under our stock based compensation plans. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and as a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock is if the price appreciates. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and shares are sold at a profit. Our organizational documents and Delaware law have anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition to Wexford Capital LLC’s and its affiliates’ ownership of a majority of our common stock after this offering, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board of Directors, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and • requirements for advance notice of nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could allow our Board of Directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace board members and could discourage takeover attempts. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on their shares of common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 