ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, as well as any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Additional risk factors could exist that we are not presently aware of which could also affect our business, our financial condition or results of operations. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 were prepared under the assumption that we will continue to operate as a going concern. The report of our registered independent public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph concerning conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We incurred losses of $185.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 and experienced a decline in revenues from $847.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $721.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Continued operations are dependent on our ability to secure adequate financing and maintain a reasonable level of liquidity such that we can timely pay our obligations when due. As of December 31, 2008, we had $22.4 million in borrowings under our loan agreement with the Union Bank of California, N.A. ("Revolving Credit Facility"), which currently has a maturity date of April 2, 2009, and we had $51.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. We are currently in discussions with lending institutions to secure an asset backed borrowing arrangement to replace our current Revolving Credit Facility. The time period required to procure a new asset backed credit facility may extend beyond the maturity date of our current Revolving Credit Facility requiring us to seek an extension of that maturity date with our current lenders. If we cannot obtain a new arrangement prior to the maturity date on our current Revolving Credit Facility and we are unable to obtain an extension of our current Revolving Credit Facility, we will be required to repay all borrowed funds on the maturity date. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional debt or equity financing or receive an extension of the current Revolving Credit Facility by or before the date of maturity of the Revolving Credit Facility and, accordingly, our liquidity and ability to timely pay our obligations when due could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may incur operating losses during fiscal year 2009 if our revenues continue to decline, which may be accelerated by the current economic crisis resulting in less demand for our products. In the event that revenues and product demand fall short of our current expectations, we will need to take further actions to reduce operating costs. There can be no assurance that such actions, if taken, will result in cash flows that will be sufficient to meet our ongoing operating needs. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we cannot secure additional financing and continue to incur losses, we may be unable to maintain a level of liquidity necessary to continue operating our business. 13 Table of Contents The recent financial crisis and general economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and the overall general health of our retail customers, which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash resources. Uncertainty about the current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers and retailers to defer purchases or cancel purchase orders for our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Our financial success is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both globally and nationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest borrowing rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, a number of our third-party retailers may be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties it could adversely impact our estimated reserves and financial results. There can be no assurances that government and consumer responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence. We may not be able to obtain the financing required to operate our business, particularly when the credit and capital markets are unstable, which could limit cash flow available for operations. Due to recent turmoil in the credit markets and the continued decline in the economy, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Also, we may be impacted by factors relating to or affecting our liquidity and capital resources due to perception in the market that may restrict our flexibility under certain conditions. We anticipate that existing cash balances and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet the ongoing needs of our business through March 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, we had $22.4 million outstanding on our Revolving Credit Facility. Pursuant to Amendment 9 to the Revolving Credit Facility, we will be required to pay all amounts outstanding on April 2, 2009. Our debt could have important consequences to our business, including the following: •requiring that we use a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt; and •limiting our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital and capital expenditures, sell assets, acquire other businesses, or repurchase capital stock. We also may incur additional debt in the future. Although the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. In addition, we may refinance all or a portion of our debt, including borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, and incur more debt as a result. If we incur new debt, the risks described above would intensify. 14 Table of Contents We anticipate that existing cash resources and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet the ongoing needs of our business through March 31, 2009. In order to provide liquidity beyond March 31, 2009, we are exploring alternatives for a new borrowing arrangement or an extension of our existing Revolving Credit Facility and are currently negotiating with financial institutions to obtain an asset backed lending arrangement. We may also explore other sources for capital to meet our ongoing needs. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all especially due to current conditions and uncertainty in the global credit markets. Our ability to fund working capital needs, planned capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our inability to secure financing before the April 2, 2009 maturity date of our Revolving Credit Facility or obtain an additional extension may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our future operating performance and our ability to meet our cash requirements and service our debt is dependent on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our operating performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to realize cost savings and synergies and drive profitable growth. If these initiatives are not met within the time frame we expect, our cash flow could be impacted. A default under our Revolving Credit Facility could restrict or terminate our access to our borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and materially impair our ability to meet our obligations as they come due. Any default, or the failure to generate sufficient cash from operations, may require us to seek additional capital or modifications to our credit facility which may not be available. Our suppliers may require us to pay cash in advance or obtain letters of credit as a condition to selling us their products and services. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth strategy or maintain our current revenue levels. Although we have generally exhibited significant growth since we began operations, revenues decreased from $847.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $721.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We may experience similar decreases in revenues in the future. Our ability to maintain our revenue levels or to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and expand our footwear offerings and distribution channels. To effectively maintain or grow our current revenue levels in our operations, we will need to continue to streamline our supply chain efforts to increase operation efficiencies and decrease costs. Failure to manage our operations in a cost efficient manner could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality, difficulty with product acceptance or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. We had net losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 and we may continue to incur losses unless our expenses are reduced or demand for our product improves. The popularity of our Crocs footwear may not grow as rapidly as it has in the past and may decline, which would have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our footwear sales, which represented approximately 91.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, contributed to our significant growth through 2007. We expect that footwear will constitute our principal product line for the foreseeable future. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands, preferences and fashion trends, and our footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional models that appeal to consumers. As our products begin to mature in certain markets, we have generally experienced less demand. Likewise, we may experience a decline in demand for our products as counterfeit or imitation products begin to gain market share. 15 Table of Contents If the popularity of our footwear declines or does not expand in the future, we may experience, among other things: •lower sales; •loss of retail customers; •excess inventories; •inventory markdowns and discounts provided to retailers; •deterioration of our brand image; and •lower revenues and gross and operating margins, as a result of price reductions. Further, we could experience a decline in our revenues and earnings from any or all of the above. Given the limited history of our Crocs brand, it is especially difficult to evaluate whether our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit that may result in substantial costs and could divert management's attention. In January 2008, plaintiffs filed a shareholder derivative action in the Colorado District Court for the City and County of Boulder alleging that certain of our officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, and were unjustly enriched. This derivative action purports to state a claim on behalf of the corporation. The complaint alleges that the claims arise from the same conduct as is alleged in the federal shareholder class action discussed below. We are in the process of responding. Starting in November 2007, certain stockholders filed several purported shareholder class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on alleged statements made by us between July 27, 2007 and October 31, 2007. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in complaints filed by investors in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The first complaint was filed in November 2007; several other complaints were filed shortly thereafter. These actions were consolidated and, in September 2008, the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and counsel. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in December 2008. The amended complaint purports to state claims under Section 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Exchange Act on behalf of a class of all persons who purchased our stock between April 2, 2007 and April 14, 2008 (the "Class Period"). The amended complaint alleges that, during the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading public statements about us and our business and prospects and that, as a result, the market price of our stock was artificially inflated. The amended complaint also claims that certain current and former officers and directors traded our stock on the basis of material non-public information. The amended complaint seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the alleged class in an unspecified amount, interest, and an award of attorneys' fees and costs of litigation. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and because the litigation is at a preliminary stage, we cannot at this time accurately predict the ultimate outcome of the matter, or of the amount or range of potential loss, if any. In December 2007, a plaintiff filed a shareholder derivative action in the Colorado District Court for the City and County of Boulder alleging that certain officers and directors of the Company breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets, and were unjustly enriched. This derivative action purported to state a claim on behalf of the Company. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint in July 2008, which alleged claims that arise from the conduct alleged in the federal shareholder class action and allegations regarding additional statements made by the Company between November 2007 and May 2008. The Company and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the derivative 16 Table of Contents complaint. On February 26, 2009, the Court dismissed the derivative compliant with prejudice and denied plaintiff leave to amend. The order is subject to appeal. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcomes of these actions. It is possible that they could be resolved adversely to us, could result in substantial costs, and could divert management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may, in the future, be the target of additional proceedings, and these proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly, and various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us and the value of our common stock. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of our future performance. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers' orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations, consolidation, contraction, and closings, as well as fashion trends, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand, and if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the footwear industry, changes in consumer preferences, and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for our business, and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our growing business. We have made significant improvements to our management information systems over the past several years, specifically to upgrade our financial reporting systems and to implement new information technology systems to better track our business, streamline our financial reporting, and improve our internal controls. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S. while a majority of our cash is generated and held outside of the U.S. The risks attendant to holding cash abroad could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S., but a majority of our cash is generated and held abroad. Since repatriation of such cash is subject to limitations and may be subject to significant taxation, we cannot be certain that we will be able to repatriate such cash on favorable terms or in a timely manner. If we continue to incur operating losses and require cash held in international accounts for use in our U.S. operations, a failure to repatriate such cash in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and counterfeiting of our brands could divert sales, damage our brand image and adversely affect our business. We utilize trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, and trade dress and designs on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. We periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging another party's products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, or if we are required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations by resulting in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. We have taken actions to protect our intellectual property rights, some of which are described in Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings. The actions we have taken or those we will take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We have registered Crocs as a trademark for footwear in Aruba, Australia, the European Union, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Antilles, New Zealand, Panama, and the World Intellectual Property Office. As of December 31, 2008, we have applied to register Crocs and the Crocs logo as trademarks in over 67 other jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. In addition, we have recently extended the scope of our trademark registrations and applications for both the Crocs mark and logo to cover non-footwear products such as sunglasses, goggles, knee pads, watches, luggage, and some of our internet sales activities. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights outside the U.S. will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or, if necessary, successfully challenge another party's counterfeit products or products that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights on the basis of trademark or patent infringement. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the U.S., and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information related to, among other things, the formulation of Croslite and product development, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third-party manufacturers and compounding facilities may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use to try to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary 18 Table of Contents information may not effectively protect such intellectual property and information and may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information, or other proprietary information, others, including our competitors, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. Because we depend on third-party manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. In the year ended December 31, 2008, third-party manufacturers produced approximately 83% of our footwear products as measured by number of units, and one such manufacturer in China produced approximately 49% of our third-party footwear products. Currently, we have footwear manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers located in China and Bosnia. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third-party manufacturers and as such, have experienced at times, delays or inabilities to fulfill customer demand and orders. While we are increasing our communication and relationships with our third-party manufacturers, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to fully mitigate any delays in the production and shipment of our products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third-party manufacturers, including the third-party manufacturer that produced the majority of our footwear products in the year ended December 31, 2008, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third-party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our Company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third-party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third-party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture a portion of our Crocs products, and any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we produced approximately 17% of our footwear products at our Company-operated manufacturing facilities in North America, Brazil and Italy. The manufacturing of our products from our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as Croslite, requires the use of a complex process, and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. We may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment, such as molds and injection molding machines. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted above with respect to our third-party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our 19 Table of Contents control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding Croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from two suppliers. We do not have any formal purchase agreement with the providers of the elastomer resins, and we purchase these elastomer resins on a purchase order basis. If the suppliers we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of Croslite, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers, and diminished brand loyalty. Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, shipping and financing. Because independent manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales market, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market demand for these products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We generated approximately 91.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 from sales of our footwear products, which consisted of more than 270 models, including Ocean Minded, Bite, YOU by Crocs™ and our Crocs footwear models. Sales of our classic Beach and Cayman models accounted for approximately 25% of our footwear revenues in the year ended December 31, 2008. A high portion of our Crocs footwear models are developed from the same base design as our Beach and Cayman models, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these models or related products in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on a line of footwear models that have substantial similarities, factors such as changes in consumer preferences and general market conditions in the footwear industry may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than on our competitors. In addition, other footwear companies have introduced products that are substantially similar to our footwear models, which may reduce sales of our footwear products. In the event that consumer preferences evolve away from our footwear models or from casual lifestyle footwear in general, or if our retail customers purchase similar products sold by our competitors, the resulting loss of sales, increase in inventories and discounting of our products are likely to be significant, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operations. 20 Table of Contents Expanding our footwear product line may be difficult and expensive, and if we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected, and we may not maintain or grow our current revenue levels and our revenues may continue to decline. Our ability to maintain or grow our current revenue levels is founded primarily on the continued sales of our footwear, and we intend to continue to refine the number of models offered in our footwear product line to broaden the appeal of our products to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce, may not be successful with consumers, or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, we may not continue to grow and our revenues may decline further, and our brand image and operating performance may suffer. We may also encounter difficulties in producing new footwear models that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing products. For example, once we begin to design a new footwear model, it can take six to nine months to progress to full production because of the need to fabricate new molds and to implement modified production tooling and revised manufacturing techniques. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail distribution, we may not be able to recoup our investment in the development of new models and product lines, and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products, and we may set the prices of new models too high for the market to bear or not provide the appropriate level of marketing in order to educate the market and potential consumers of new products. Achieving market acceptance will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general, and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts effectively. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we introduce could impede our ability to maintain or grow our current revenues, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position, and result in long term harm to our business Sales of our products are likely to be subject to seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Due to our significant sales growth since our inception, followed by the global economic crisis in 2008, there is still uncertainty in the degree to which sales of our footwear products will be subject to seasonality. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced a 40% increase in sales in the first quarter of 2008 compared to 2007. However, due to declining economic conditions and declining demand for our products, our sales were flat in the second quarter of 2008 compared to 2007 and our sales declined in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 compared to 2007. We expect that our business, similar to other vendors of footwear and related merchandise, will be subject to seasonal variation. We believe many vendors that market footwear products suited for warm weather normally experience their highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year. While we have introduced footwear models that are more suitable for cold weather, such as the Mammoth, Endeavor, Georgie, All Terrain, Snowmini, and YOU by Crocstm styles, we expect that demand for our products, and therefore our sales, may be subject to seasonal variations and significantly impacted by weather conditions because the majority of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008 were attributable to our footwear styles more suitable for fair weather. 21 Table of Contents In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new model introductions or general economic or consumer conditions. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. This could lead to results outside of analyst and investor expectations which could cause the volatility in our stock price to increase. We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting, and any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended on December 31, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures, and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and the independent auditors. Continued documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the ongoing course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the annual deadlines imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. For example, during the three months ended March 31, 2008, we identified a control deficiency that was determined to be a material weakness in our system of internal controls. The material weakness identified related to controls over the preparation and calculation of the consolidated income tax provision and related reserves. The existence of such material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, such deficiencies may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on, the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. If we are forced to defend against such third-party claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time consuming litigation, which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, 22 Table of Contents and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. Thus, such third-party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any such reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse affect on our business. Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We require our third-party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to do business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third-party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third-party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer's actions could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and the value of our brand, and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. We are reliant on key personnel and our officers, including our new Chief Executive Officer, John Duerden. To expand our business we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. As a result of the difficult global macroeconomic conditions and extremely challenging retail environments, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, we implemented restructuring and workforce reductions, which may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. Our business has been adversely affected by challenging retail environments in many of the markets in which we operate due in large part to the current global economic downturn. Accordingly, we made the decision in 2008 to right-size our operations to better align with our lower sales volumes and revenues, resulting in us reducing our workforce in North America and Europe. Additionally, we made the decision in 2008 to close our manufacturing plants in Brazil and Canada. This restructuring plan, or any restructuring plans undertaken in the future, may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the reduction in workforce to seek employment elsewhere. We run the risk that our restructuring efforts may not sufficiently reduce costs to maintain profitability, or, in the alternative, our restructuring efforts may result in too many reductions, which could adversely affect our operations and may potentially stunt our growth. Additional attrition or an inability to find adequate replacements for lost personnel could adversely affect our ability to meet our operational or financial goals. 23 Table of Contents Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and to the success of such retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products, the expansion to new retail customers, and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. Furthermore, many of our retail customers compete with each other, and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our retail customers by selling our products to consumers via the internet and through our Company-operated kiosks and stores. If our retail customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. The changes in the global economy could also affect our customers' liquidity and capital resources and their ability to meet their payment obligations to us, which in turn would decrease their credit terms and our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and capital resources. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable aging and have recorded appropriate reserves as we deem appropriate. We face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our Crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors: •have significantly greater financial resources than us; •have more comprehensive product lines than ours; •have broader market presence than we have in retail stores, or have more Company-operated retail stores than us; •have longer-standing relationships with retailers than us; •have a longer operating history than ours; •have greater distribution capabilities than us; •have stronger brand recognition than us; and •spend substantially more on product advertising and sales than us. Our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate, and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. 24 Table of Contents We may fail to successfully streamline our distribution network or introduce our products internationally, and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our strategy, we plan to streamline our supply chain network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: •the strength of the Crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; •our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; •our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and •our ability to consolidate our network to leverage resources and simplify our fulfillment process. If we are unable to successfully streamline our supply chain and sell our Crocs-branded products internationally, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We conduct, and in the future expect to conduct, a significant portion of our activities outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are subject to the risks of international commerce. We use third-party manufacturers located in foreign countries; we operate manufacturing facilities located in North America, Brazil and Italy; and we sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: •tariffs, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; •delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of foreign-sourced products; •increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; •delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; •foreign currency fluctuations, for which we do not currently engage in any material hedging transactions; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •changing economic conditions; •restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; •changes in governmental policies and regulations; •political unrest, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; •expropriation and nationalization; •difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and •difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, our manufacturing activity outside of the U.S., including the production of our products by third-party manufacturers, particularly in China, is subject to risks of poor infrastructure, 25 Table of Contents shortages of equipment, and labor unrest, in addition to those risks noted above. Once our products are manufactured, we may also suffer delays in distributing our products due to work stoppages, strikes, or lockouts at the ports where our products arrive. Such labor disruptions could result in product shortages and delays in distributing our products to retailers. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. In addition, during 2008, we generated $400.3 million, or 56%, of our revenues outside of the U.S., and in the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated approximately $407.8 million, or 48% of our revenues outside of the U.S. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. The market has recently seen significant volatility in the value of the dollar against other foreign markets and currency. We purchase products and supplies from third parties in U.S. dollars and receive payments from certain of our international customers in foreign currencies. The cost of these products and supplies sourced overseas, and payments received from customers, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we experienced $25.5 million in non-cash foreign currency exchange rate losses primarily on intercompany balances. Acquisitions may be difficult to identify and successfully integrate into our business and could have other adverse consequences. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies. We expect to consider other opportunities to acquire or make investments in other businesses and products that could enhance our manufacturing capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In the event we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be diluted. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or effectively manage the combined business following completion of the acquisition. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to any of the following factors: •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of the acquisition; •the potential loss of key employees; or •risks associated with entering new product lines or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operations or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences, and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of us, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third-party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of us or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 