Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Schedule I Not Applicable Schedule II Not Applicable 2 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Statements in this Form 10-K (or otherwise made by Crocs or on Croc's behalf) contain various forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the "Exchange Act," which represent our management's beliefs and assumptions concerning future events. When used in this document and in documents incorporated by reference, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding financial forecasts or projections, and our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "plans," or similar language. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. It is routine for our internal projections and expectations to change as the year or each quarter in the year progresses, and therefore it should be clearly understood that the internal projections, beliefs and assumptions on which we base our expectations may change prior to the end of each quarter or year. Although these expectations may change, we may not inform you if they do. You should understand that many important factors, in addition to those discussed or incorporated by reference in this report, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could affect our results include, in addition to others not described in this report, those described in Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events discussed in this report might not occur. Throughout this report, references to the "Company," we and "our" refer to Crocs, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 3 PART 1 ITEM 1. Business Overview We are a rapidly growing designer, manufacturer and marketer of footwear for men, women and children under the crocs brand. All of our footwear products incorporate our proprietary closed-cell resin material which enables us to produce a soft and lightweight, non-marking, slip- and odor- resistant shoe. We believe our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as croslite, combined with our unique styling, represents a substantial innovation in footwear comfort and functionality, allowing us to offer a differentiated line of products in the casual lifestyle footwear category at attractive retail price points ranging from $19.99 to $59.99, as of February 28, 2006. We currently offer 11 footwear models in up to 18 different colors. We market our footwear products to a broad range of distribution channels and currently sell our products in over 6,500 retail locations in the United States, and have begun selling our products in over 40 additional countries. Product Overview Our primary product line is crocs-branded footwear for men, women and children, which we first introduced in 2002 with a single model in six colors. We have since expanded our line of footwear to include 11 models in up to 18 different colors and a range of sizes, representing over 1,100 stock keeping units, or SKUs, and we intend to continue diversifying our footwear portfolio with new model introductions. In addition to our footwear products, we market a line of crocs-branded apparel and accessory items that are intended to increase awareness of our brand and our products. We also selectively use croslite to manufacture a variety of other non-branded products, such as spa pillows and kayak seats, which are marketed to original equipment manufacturers. Footwear A key differentiating feature of our footwear products is croslite, which is uniquely suited for comfort and functionality. We have carefully formulated croslite to be of a density that creates a comfortable shoe with a high coefficient of friction, allowing for slip-resistant, non-marking footwear that is extremely lightweight. For example, a size large Beach model weighs approximately six ounces, which is significantly lighter than more traditional casual footwear products. Croslite softens as it warms to better conform to the wearer's feet. Our shoes are also non-absorbent, which makes them water resistant and virtually odor-free, and allows them to be cleaned simply with water or bleach. We have combined the unique properties of croslite with designs that are intended to be functional across a broad range of activities. As a result, we believe our products appeal to a wide range of consumers. We introduced crocs as a footwear brand in the U.S. with the launch of our Beach model in 2002. Based on our initial success, we made refinements to the Beach model and introduced a second generation of footwear (the Cayman, Highland and Metro models) that incorporated a broader range of sizing, provided different levels of ventilation for various climates and offered slightly different styling. We have further broadened our footwear line into new product categories, such as the Athens, a flip-flop with a soft footbed; the Nile, an open toe model designed for women; and the Islander, a deck shoe integrating a base made from croslite with a stitched leather upper. We currently sell our shoes in an assortment of colors, styles and sizes to provide consumers and retailers a wide variety of options at suggested retail prices ranging from $19.99 to $59.99. We have designed our shoes to offer a number of beneficial structural features to provide maximum comfort and functionality, such as Italian-designed orthotic heels, built-in arch supports and tarsal bars. We also offer models that are based on either general shoe sizing ranging from XXS through 4XL, or specific shoe sizing ranging from children's 8-9 through men's 13. This allows retailers to offer a complete 4 range of sizes or carry a more limited number of SKUs, enabling them to tailor their offerings to their particular clientele and more efficiently allocate limited floor space. Apparel and Accessories We have introduced several crocs-branded accessory items that complement the fun styling, colors and image of our footwear and that we believe will appeal to a similar demographic base. We have developed a line of crocs sunglasses that we intend to market to larger retail customers where we believe accessories will appeal to the retailer's customer base and complement the retailer's merchandising strategy for our footwear. We also intend to develop additional crocs accessories for certain targeted markets. For example, we have developed a line of lightweight, colorful kneepads made from croslite, which we are marketing to gardening retailers and hardware stores. Our strategy is to develop accessory items that benefit from our unique material and complement the market positioning of our crocs footwear. As part of our strategy to increase awareness of our brand, we have also introduced a line of branded logo apparel which is complementary to our footwear line and embodies the functional and fun aspects of the crocs brand. These products include t-shirts, sweatshirts, hats, beanies and socks, all of which come in various colors and prominently feature the crocs logo. Other Products Croslite is well suited to a number of other applications and, in many cases, is superior to materials currently used in such applications. Foam Creations, our wholly owned subsidiary, manufactures spa pillows for the home spa market, seats and pads for use in kayaks and canoes, and scuba diving fins as croslite is highly functional for water sports products. These products employ croslite, but we do not market them under the crocs brand name. Sales and Distribution Domestic Distribution Sales In the U.S., we sell our products through over 6,500 domestic retail store locations representing over 3,400 customer accounts. Our footwear is currently sold through traditional retail channels, including specialty footwear stores, sporting goods and outdoor retailers. Sales to Dillard's accounted for approximately 12% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. Our products are also sold through a variety of other specialty channels, including gift shops, independent bicycle dealers, specialty food retailers, health and beauty stores, catalogs, uniform suppliers and kiosks. Our domestic accounts are primarily serviced through our internal sales force and a network of independent sales representatives, who focus on selling the appropriate mix and quantity of our products to our retail accounts. They ensure our products are displayed effectively at retail locations and educate our retailers about our crocs brand and the quality of our products. We compensate our internal and independent sales representatives on a commission basis, which we believe provides them with strong incentives to promote our products. We are typically the exclusive footwear brand sold by the independent sales representatives, who may also sell complementary products, such as sunglasses or apparel, from other companies. For certain of our larger retail accounts and distributors, we manage the sales relationship through in-house sales executives rather than through independent sales representatives. 5 International Distribution Sales Outside of the U.S., we sell our products through over 1,500 international retail store locations. Our strategy is to sell through a broad range of sporting goods and department stores, as well as through specialty retailers, similar to the retail sales channels we have established in the U.S. We intend to continue to establish a direct sales presence in major foreign markets, rather than rely on distributors, which we believe will improve our margins and allow us to better control our marketing and distribution. We have established direct sales efforts in Australia, Austria, the Caribbean, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. We also use distributors in select foreign markets where we believe such arrangements are preferable to direct sales. In markets where we use third party distributors, these distributors purchase products pursuant to a price list and are granted the right to resell such products in a defined territory, usually a country or group of countries. Our typical distribution agreements have terms of one to four years, are terminable on 60 days' notice prior to the end of the term or on six months prior notice at any time, and require our distributors to meet a minimum sales threshold. Retail Sales We are currently expanding our direct sales efforts to consumers. We believe that direct sales provide us with an opportunity to showcase our entire line of footwear, apparel and accessory offerings, and believe this strategy will serve as an important and effective means to enhance our product and brand awareness. We also believe that our direct sales initiatives require low levels of capital investment while enabling us to sell our products at retail, rather than wholesale prices, resulting in higher potential gross margins. Retail Sites. As of December 31, 2005, we operated approximately 50 retail kiosks domestically and internationally located in malls and other high foot traffic areas. With bright and colorful displays, efficient use of retail space and limited initial capital investment, we believe that kiosks are an effective outlet for selling our products. Kiosks enable us to highlight a wide range of our product offering, more effectively interact with potential consumers and enhance our brand awareness among both consumers and local retailers. We plan to continue to open and operate additional kiosk sites in select, high foot traffic locations. Internet. We currently offer our products domestically and internationally through our website at www.crocs.com. Our Internet presence enables us to educate consumers about our products and brand. As we expand our international marketing efforts, we intend to create local websites targeting consumers in each major market we enter. Distribution and Logistics In July 2005, we engaged Expeditors International of Washington, Inc., a global supply chain management and logistics provider, to operate our warehouse, distribution and fulfillment process for a significant portion of our domestic sales. Expeditors operates a distribution center in Aurora, Colorado through which we distribute a substantial portion of our products in the U.S. We have negotiated the use of up to 320,000 square feet of the distribution center to accommodate fluctuations in our inventory. We do not have a long-term contract with Expeditors, and the relationship may be terminated at will on 60 days' notice by either party. A substantial portion of our products are shipped to Expeditors' distribution center in Aurora, Colorado. From there, Expeditors packages orders and generally ships by package express or truck to our customers, depending on size of order, customer location and availability of inventory. In select cases, large customers may receive shipments of footwear directly from the manufacturing facilities. We have additional company-operated warehouse and fulfillment operations in Canada, China, Mexico, the 6 Netherlands and Singapore, and are developing relationships with third parties in Australia, Japan, New Zealand and Singapore to provide such services to us. In addition, we have established a company-operated warehouse facility and customer order facility in Niwot, Colorado, and we are currently processing our Internet, accessories and apparel orders from this facility. We believe that these warehousing, distribution and fulfillment services will enable us to ship our products from facilities adjacent to our manufacturing operations directly to our customers, rather than through Expeditors' distribution facility in Colorado. Raw Materials Our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as croslite, is the primary raw material used in all of our footwear and non-branded products. Croslite is also used in our crocs-branded accessory items, such as our kneepads. We have formulated croslite to offer a number of unique properties that make our material suitable for a wide range of commercial uses including those mentioned above. Our material is soft and durable and is of a density that provides a high coefficient of friction allowing our material to be slip-resistant and non-marking in addition to being extremely lightweight. Additionally, the closed-cell nature of croslite makes it resistant to the bacteria and fungus that cause shoe and foot odor. We continue to invest in research and development in order to refine our materials to enhance these properties as well as target the development of new properties for specific applications. Croslite is produced by compounding elastomer resins that we or one of our third party processors purchase from a major chemicals manufacturer together with certain other production inputs, such as color dyes. Other than the elastomer resins, all of the raw materials we use to produce croslite are readily available for purchase from multiple suppliers. At this time, we have identified two suppliers that produce the particular elastomer resins used in croslite. However, we may in the future identify and utilize materials produced by other suppliers as an alternative to the elastomer resins we currently use in the production of our proprietary material. We have historically contracted to have croslite compounded by Finproject S.p.A., or Finproject, our third party manufacturer in Italy, and we have recently begun compounding croslite at our manufacturing facility in Quebec City, Canada. We have also engaged a processor in Canada to compound a portion of our croslite requirements. We believe that in-house production of croslite will lower our production costs, reduce the risk of supply shortages from our third party processors and provide us with greater production flexibility to meet changing retail demand. Manufacturing and Sourcing We operate our own production facilities in North America, and we also contract with third party manufacturers located in the U.S. and around the world. We believe our in-house manufacturing capabilities enable us to rapidly make changes to production, providing us with the flexibility to quickly respond to orders for high-demand models and colors throughout the year, while outsourcing allows us to capitalize on the efficiencies and cost benefits of using contract manufacturing. The process for manufacturing our footwear was developed over an eight year period of continual refinement to improve consistency, softness, durability and yield. Prior to October 2004, all of our footwear was manufactured at Foam Creations's facility in Quebec City. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we manufactured approximately 16.8% of our footwear products in our Quebec City facility and have increased our internal manufacturing capacity through our acquisition in April 2005, and subsequent expansion, of a manufacturing operation in Mexico. We obtain the remainder of our footwear products from third party manufacturers in China, Florida and Italy. In the year ended December 31, 2005, a supplier in China produced approximately 70.3% of our footwear unit volume. We have long-term contracts with third party manufacturers in Italy and Florida, but do not have a written supply agreement with our primary third party manufacturer in China. During 2006 7 we intend to expand our manufacturing capacity at the facility we operate in Mexico, in addition to adding third party manufacturing capacity at a facility in Romania operated by one of our existing suppliers. While we are currently dependent on a limited number of third party manufacturers to produce a majority of our footwear products, we have evaluated and qualified over 15 alternative third party manufacturers that have the current ability and capacity to manufacture our footwear products in the event that one or more of our current third party manufacturers were to reduce or cease production of our footwear. We purchase our apparel and accessories from various suppliers in the U.S. that source our products from manufacturers in Guatemala, Honduras and South Korea. Backlog As of December 31, 2005, our backlog was approximately $6.7 million compared to $1.4 million as of December 31, 2004. Although orders in the backlog are subject to cancellation by customers, we have not experienced any material levels of cancellation of orders by our customers in the past. For a variety of reasons, including our short operating history, continued growth in customer demand for our products, the addition of new customers in each of our channels, the timing of production and shipments, seasonality, product mix of customer orders, and a shift toward shorter lead times for orders, backlog may not be a reliable measure of future sales for any succeeding period. In addition, our historical cancellation experience may not be indicative of future cancellation rates. Competition The global casual footwear and apparel industry is highly competitive. The principal elements of competition in this industry include brand awareness, product functionality, design, quality, pricing, marketing and distribution. We believe that our unique footwear designs, croslite and our expanding product offering and distribution network position us well in the marketplace. However, some companies in the casual footwear and apparel industry have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than we have. Furthermore, the unique designs and resulting success of our footwear products have attracted new players in the market with imitation products that are similar to ours, and we face competition from these new market entrants. Intellectual Property and Trademarks We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret, trade dress and patent protection to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in our product designs, brand, materials and research and development efforts, although no such methods can afford complete protection. We own a variety of trademarks, including the crocs trademark, in a number of countries around the world. Our trademarks are used on all of our crocs-branded footwear, apparel and accessory products. We have registered our crocs trademark in Australia, the European Union, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and Panama, and have registered our crocs logo as a trademark with the World Intellectual Property Office, or WIPO. As of February 7, 2006, we had 18 pending applications for our trademarks in the U.S., including an application for the crocs trademark and our crocs logo. As of February 7, 2006, we also had 180 pending trademark applications in foreign jurisdictions. Trademarks registered outside of the U.S. generally have a duration of ten years depending on the jurisdiction and are also generally subject to an indefinite number of renewals for a like period on appropriate application. We believe our trademarks are crucial to the successful marketing and sale of our products, and we intend to vigorously prosecute and defend our rights throughout the world. 8 As of February 7, 2006, we had three utility patent applications and 23 design patent applications pending in the U.S., as well as one utility patent issued in the United States. We also had European Union Community Design Registrations directed to our Beach, Highland, Nile, Metro, Islander, Aspen, and a number of planned future shoe models. We also had three issued design registrations in South Korea, three issued design registrations in India, three pending design applications in Brazil, and three pending design applications in China directed to our Beach, Highland, and Nile models. We also had 78 other design applications pending directed to our Islander, Aspen, and a number of planned future shoe models in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we had 27 utility patent applications pending in several foreign jurisdictions. We expect to continue to pursue patent protection on our inventions that are significant to our business and pursue other intellectual property protection where applicable. We consider the formulation of croslite used to produce our products to be a valuable trade secret. Prior to our acquisition of Foam Creations in June 2004, Foam Creations developed the formula for croslite, and we believe that they did not publish or otherwise make the formula available to third parties without the protection of confidentiality or similar agreements. Since the acquisition, we continue to protect the formula by using confidentiality agreements with our third party processors and by requiring our employees who have access to the formula to execute confidentiality agreements or to be bound by similar agreements concerning the protection of our confidential information. Neither we nor Foam Creations have attempted to seek patent protection for the formula but we are not aware of any third party that has independently developed the formula or that otherwise has the right to use the formula in their products other than Finproject. Under the terms of our supply agreement with Finproject, Finproject has certain limited rights to use croslite, which were originally negotiated in connection with our purchase of Foam Creations from Finproject's parent company. We believe the comfort and utility of our shoes depend on the properties achieved from the compounding of croslite and is a key competitive advantage for us, and we intend to vigorously protect this trade secret. We actively combat counterfeiting through monitoring of the global marketplace. We use our employees, sales representatives, distributors and retailers to police against infringing products by encouraging them to notify us of any suspect products and to assist law enforcement agencies. Our sales representatives are also educated on our pending patents and trade dress and assist in preventing potentially infringing products from obtaining retail shelf space. The laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States, and therefore we may have difficulty obtaining legal protection for our intellectual property in certain jurisdictions. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 1,130 employees. As of December 31, 2005, none of our employees were represented by a union, other than 275 of our Canadian employees who were represented by the Teamsters Union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and our business. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We commenced sales of our crocs footwear, which currently constitute a substantial majority of our sales, in 2002. As an early stage company with a limited operating history, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in a new business enterprise, including: •products without a significant history in the market; •reliance on a small number of products; 9 •limited manufacturing experience; •lack of established distribution channels; •a small and relatively new management team and an evolving organizational infrastructure; and •weaknesses in newly implemented or limited management information systems. Furthermore, we have recently experienced rapid growth, which has made our current operations and our expected future operations substantially different from our past operating history. For example, to support our growth we have added additional manufacturing capacity and have expanded our distribution and fulfillment capabilities. New manufacturing capacity that we have recently added may not meet our projections or may suffer from operating difficulties. Similarly, our outsourced distribution and fulfillment provider may not perform as we expect, and our expanded in-house fulfillment capabilities may prove difficult to manage. Our limited operating history will make it difficult for you to evaluate this growth in our business and our prospects for the future. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past two years, and if we fail to manage any future growth effectively we may experience greater difficulty in filling customer orders, declines in product quality, increases in costs or other operating difficulties. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past two years, and we anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and new market opportunities. Prior to June 2004, we distributed in the U.S. under our crocs brand a limited range of footwear products manufactured and sold to us by Foam Creations. In June 2004, we acquired Foam Creations. Since that acquisition, we have expanded our product line, increased the number of employees and increased our production of shoes. The expansion of the scope and nature of our business and the growth in the number of employees, customers and other third parties with whom we have relationships and in the number of facilities we use for manufacturing, distribution, and corporate operations, have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management and our information systems and resources. To manage growth in our operations, we will need to increase the number of people we employ, upgrade or replace our existing financial and reporting systems as well as improve our business processes and controls. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality or increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. The popularity of our crocs footwear may not continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the recent past or may decline, which would have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our recent growth is substantially attributable to sales of crocs footwear, which represented approximately 94.4% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect that footwear will constitute our principal product line for the foreseeable future. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences and fashion trends, and our crocs footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional models that appeal to consumers. If the popularity of our crocs footwear declines or does not expand in the future, we may experience, among other things: •lower sales; •loss of retail customers; •excess inventories; •inventory markdowns and discounts provided to retailers; 10 •deterioration of our brand image; and •lower gross and operating margins. Given the limited history of our crocs brand, it is especially difficult to evaluate whether our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products and the absence of continued market demand for these products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We generated approximately 94.4% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 from sales of our crocs footwear, which currently consists of 11 models, plus children's versions of two of our models. Sales of our Beach model accounted for approximately 60.9% of our footwear revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. Most of our crocs footwear models are developed from the same base design as our Beach model, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these models or related products in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on a line of footwear models that have substantial similarities, factors such as changes in consumer preferences and general market conditions in the footwear industry may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than on our competitors. In addition, other footwear companies have introduced products that are substantially similar to our footwear models, which may reduce sales of our footwear products. In the event that consumer preferences evolve away from our footwear models or from casual lifestyle footwear in general, or our retail customers purchase similar products sold by our competitors, the resulting loss of sales, increase in inventories and discounting of our products are likely to be significant, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operations. Expanding our crocs footwear product line may be difficult and expensive, and if we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected, and we may not achieve our planned sales growth. Our growth strategy is founded primarily on the continued growth in sales of crocs footwear, and we intend to continue to expand the number of models offered in our crocs footwear product line to broaden the appeal of our products to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand and react to the rapidly changing tastes of footwear consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, we may not grow as fast as we plan or our sales may decline, and our brand image and operating performance may suffer. Furthermore, achieving market acceptance for new products will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts. Material increases in our selling, general and administrative expense could adversely impact our results of operations. We may also encounter difficulties in producing new crocs footwear models that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing footwear products. Once we have begun to design a new model, it can take six to nine months to progress to full production because of the need to fabricate new molds and to implement modified production tooling and revised manufacturing techniques. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail distribution, we may not be able to recoup our investment in the development of new models, and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our product pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products, and we may set the prices 11 of new models too high for the market to bear. Failure to gain market acceptance for new footwear products that we introduce could impede our growth, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position and result in long term harm to our business. We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting, and any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. SEC rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent auditors will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, to attest to our officers' assessment of our internal controls. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors. Documentation and testing of our internal controls, which we have only undertaken to a limited extent in the past, will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of such material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Our current management information systems are insufficient for the growth of our business, and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our growing business. We do not have an integrated management information system. For certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We expect to use approximately $4.5 million of the net proceeds from the IPO to upgrade our financial reporting systems and to implement new information technology systems to better track our business, streamline our financial reporting, and improve our internal controls. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. Sales of our products are likely to be subject to seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. The footwear industry generally is characterized by significant seasonality of sales. Due to the growth in sales of our products in the past two years we cannot assess with certainty the degree to 12 which sales of our footwear products will be subject to seasonal variation, but a majority of our footwear is more suited for fair weather use, so we expect some degree of seasonality in the future. Our revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2005 were approximately 12% lower than our revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2005, and we believe that the decline was primarily attributable to seasonal declines in demand for our products. In addition, extended periods of unusually cold weather during the spring and summer could reduce demand for our footwear. Seasonal variations in consumer demand may result in fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter, and the effect of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales may be significant enough to materially affect our quarterly results. Wide variations in our quarterly operating results may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Because we depend on third party manufacturers, we face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. In the year ended December 31, 2005, third party manufacturers produced approximately 78.1% of our footwear products as measured by number of units, and one such manufacturer produced approximately 70.3% of our footwear products. Currently, we have footwear manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers located in China, Florida and Italy. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third party manufacturers, including the third party manufacturer that produced the majority of our footwear products in the year ended December 31, 2005, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third party manufacturers may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our business could suffer if our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We generally require our third party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer's actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. We manufacture a portion of our crocs products, and any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We produce some of our products at our company-operated manufacturing facilities in Canada and Mexico. In the year ended December 31, 2005, we produced approximately 16.8% of our crocs 13 footwear production at our Canadian facility, and we recently commenced production at our company-operated facility in Mexico. The manufacturing of our products from our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as croslite, requires the use of a complex process, and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. Additionally, we may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment such as molds and injection molding machines. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted above with respect to our third party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We established our own manufacturing facility in Mexico by acquiring the assets of an existing footwear manufacturer in April 2005, and subsequently added capacity at our adjacent facility that we leased. Prior to April 2005, we had never independently established our own manufacturing facility, and this newly-established facility may not be as efficient or as productive as our other company-operated or third party manufacturing operations. Moreover, the expansion of our company-operated manufacturing capabilities will increase our fixed cost base, and could adversely impact our margins and results of operations in the event our sales decline or do not continue to grow. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our crocs footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from one supplier. We do not have any formal purchase agreement with the provider of the elastomer resins, and we purchase these elastomer resins on a purchase order basis. If the supplier we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. Additionally, a single third party processor in Italy compounded all of the croslite we used in producing crocs footwear in 2004, and we expect that this third party processor will continue to provide at least a majority of our requirements for the foreseeable future. Although we have arranged for another third party processor to compound croslite and we began compounding croslite at Foam Creations's facility in Quebec City, Canada in 2005, the compounding process is complex and difficult to perfect on a large scale, and neither we nor our new third party processor may be able to compound meaningful quantities of croslite suitable for use in our products. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of croslite, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. 14 If we are unable to assimilate our new managers and recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully develop and market our products may be harmed. Several of our executive officers have recently joined us and therefore have limited experience in managing our company. For example, we hired Ronald Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, in June 2004, and Caryn Ellison, our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President—Finance, in November 2004 and, on February 2, 2006, we hired Peter Case as our Senior Vice President—Finance, and a new corporate controller, each of whose appointment became effective on February 6, 2006. We may experience difficulty assimilating our recently hired managers, which may adversely impact our business. It is possible that the changes to our finance and accounting staff will hamper, rather than aid, our efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting due to, among other things, the time and effort required to integrate the new employees. Furthermore, we are now subject to SEC reporting obligations and if these new employees are not properly integrated into our finance and accounting staff, we may be unable to adequately address our SEC reporting obligations. To expand our business we will also need to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing and customer service personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees, including any member of our management team. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a single third party for a significant portion of our warehouse, distribution and fulfillment operations. If this party is unwilling or unable to continue providing services to us, our business could be materially harmed. We engaged Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. in July 2005 to operate our warehouse, distribution and fulfillment process for a significant portion of our domestic sales. We are dependent on Expeditors to manage inventory, process orders and distribute products to our customers in a timely manner. We do not have a long-term contract with Expeditors and they may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. Any disruption in our relationship with Expeditors could cause significant delays in the fulfillment of our customers' orders, and we may not be able to locate another distributor that can provide comparable warehouse, distribution and fulfillment services in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. Additionally, any serious disruption to the services provided to us by Expeditors could harm our ability to supply products to our customers, including: •damage or destruction to Expeditors's warehouse and distribution center used for our products due to fire, earthquake or any other natural disaster; •work stoppages, disputes or difficulties between Expeditors and its employees; •malfunctions in Expeditors's information systems; or •disruptions in Expeditors's shipping channels. In the event that the distribution of our products by Expeditors is interrupted for any reason, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We are in the process of establishing our own warehouse, distribution and fulfillment capabilities, and are also developing relationships with additional third parties to conduct similar services for us. Any additional 15 expenses incurred in connection with, or any disruption in the supply of our products that is caused by, such changes in our logistical infrastructure could adversely affect our business. We have recently established a company-operated warehouse and order processing and customer order facility in Niwot, Colorado that manages all Internet, apparel and accessories orders and shipments. We have established or are in the process of establishing additional company-operated warehouse and fulfillment operations in Mexico, China, Canada, the Netherlands and Singapore and are developing relationships with third parties in Australia, Japan and New Zealand to provide such services to us. We believe these warehousing, distribution and fulfillment services will enable us to ship our products from the facilities that manufacture our products directly to our customers, rather than remaining dependent on Expeditors's distribution facility in Colorado. The transition from Expeditors to another vendor or to a company-operated warehousing, distribution and fulfillment operation could result in significant delays and disruptions in the supply of our products and could require that we make significant additional expenditures that may adversely impact our operating results. Moreover, until recently we had never engaged in the warehousing of our products or provided order fulfillment for our retail customers or consumers. As such, we cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully conduct these activities, or that other third parties will be able to conduct these activities for us in a satisfactory manner. Additionally, these warehouse, distribution and fulfillment operations subject us to many of the same risks that our current relationship with Expeditors does, as noted above. In the event that we or a third party are unable to conduct warehousing, distribution and fulfillment activities in a cost effective, timely, and accurate manner, the distribution of our products may be adversely affected, which could result in harm to our relationships with our retail customers and consumers, a reduction in demand for our products, and additional expenses to us. We face significant competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors: •have significantly greater financial resources than we have; •have more comprehensive product lines than ours; •have broader market presence than we have in, or have their own, retail outlets; •have longer-standing relationships with retailers than we have; •have a longer operating history than ours; •have greater distribution capabilities than we have; •have stronger brand recognition than we have; and •spend substantially more on product advertising and sales than we do. Our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. 16 If we are unable to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, competitors may sell products that are substantially similar to our crocs footwear, or may produce counterfeit versions of our products, and such competing or counterfeit products could divert sales and may damage our brand image. We believe our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. From time to time, we have identified competitors selling products that are very similar in design to certain of our crocs footwear models, and that are manufactured from what may be comparable materials to our products. We believe that some of these products may infringe our intellectual property rights. Given the increased popularity of our crocs brand, we believe there is a high likelihood that counterfeit products or other products infringing on our intellectual property rights will continue to emerge, seeking to benefit from the consumer demand for crocs footwear. In order to protect our brand, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have registered crocs as a trademark for footwear in Australia, the European Union, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and Panama. We have also applied to register crocs and the crocs logo as trademarks in 36 jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. In addition, we have recently extended the scope of our trademark registrations and applications for both the crocs mark and logo to cover non-footwear products such as sunglasses, goggles, knee pads, watches, luggage, and some of our Internet sales activities. Although we believe that we have applied for trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where we are doing or intend to do business, there is a possibility that we have not applied to register the crocs mark, the company logos, the individual brand names for our products or our marketing slogans in countries where we will do business in the future, and we have elected not to apply for trademark registrations for some marks in some jurisdictions. Furthermore, we may not obtain trademark registrations in connection with any applications that we file, and trademark protection, whether registered or common law, may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy our crocs brand, expose us to trademark liability and impair our ability to compete effectively. In addition, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We believe our success may be enhanced by our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, and therefore have elected to pursue patent protection for our products in the U.S. and other countries. Currently, we have been issued one Community Design Registration and three Community Multiple Design Registrations in the European Union covering a total of ten shoe designs. Three of our shoe designs have also received registrations in South Korea and India and we have recently been issued one utility patent in the U.S., but we have not been granted any other utility patents or design patents in the U.S. or any utility patents or additional design registrations in other countries. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, and competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our issued patent, or our 17 registered designs or patent applications that proceed to issuance. We cannot predict how the patent claims in our issued patent, or any patents issued from any pending or future patent application, will be construed, and such patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing, and/or marketing of competing products, or may be challenged by third parties on the basis of validity and enforceability. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information, related to, among other things, the formulation of croslite and product development, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third party manufacturers may increase risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use to try to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may not effectively protect such intellectual property and information and may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information or other proprietary information, our competitors and other third parties, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on, the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. If we are forced to defend against such third party claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time consuming litigation which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. Further, if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. Additionally, if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. Thus, such third party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any such reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse affect on our business. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and to the success of such retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. In the year ended December 31, 2005, our ten largest retail customers accounted for approximately 34% of our revenues, with Dillard's, our largest customer for the period, accounting for approximately 12% of our revenues. If any of our major retail customers experiences a significant downturn in their business or fails to remain committed to our products or brand, then these customers may reduce or 18 discontinue purchases from us. In addition, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition. If a significant customer to whom we have extended credit experiences financial difficulties, our bad debt expense may increase relative to revenues in the future. Any significant increase in our bad debt expense relative to revenues would adversely impact our net income and cash flow and could affect our ability to pay our own obligations as they become due. Furthermore, many of our retail customers compete with each other, and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our retail customers by selling our products to consumers via the Internet and through our company-operated kiosks. If our retail customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers' orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks and rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand, and if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the footwear industry, changes in consumer preferences and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may fail to successfully expand our distribution network or introduce our products internationally, and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our distribution network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: •the strength of the crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; •our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; •our ability to use and protect the crocs brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and •our ability to successfully enter and compete in markets and territories, especially internationally, where we have little distribution experience and where our crocs brand is not well known. If we are unable to successfully expand our distribution channels and sell our crocs-branded products internationally, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock 19 without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 