ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our short and long-term success is subject to many factors beyond our control. If any of the following risks, as well as any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Current economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending and the overall general health of our retail customers, which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash resources. Uncertainty about the current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers and retailers to defer purchases or cancel purchase orders for our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and weakened consumer confidence. Our financial success is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both globally and nationally. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest borrowing rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity 13 Table of Contents prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, a number of our third-party retailers may be impacted by the significant decrease in available credit that has resulted from the current financial crisis. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for these third parties it could adversely impact our estimated reserves and financial results. There can be no assurances that government and consumer responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence. We may be unable to successfully execute our long-term growth strategy or maintain our current revenue levels. Although we exhibited significant growth from our inception through 2007, revenues have declined in recent years, from $847.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $721.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $645.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We may experience similar decreases in revenues in the future. Our ability to maintain our revenue levels or to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and bring compelling and revenue-enhancing footwear offerings to market and our ability to expand within our current distribution channels. Likewise, in order to effectively execute against our current turnaround strategy and our long-term growth strategy, we will need to continue to streamline our supply chain in an effort to increase operating efficiencies and decrease costs. Failure to manage our operations in a cost efficient manner could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality, difficulty with product acceptance or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. We had net losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and we may continue to incur losses unless our expenses are reduced or demand for our product improves. The popularity of our Crocs footwear may not grow as rapidly as it has in the past and may decline, which would have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our footwear sales, which represented approximately 94.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, contributed to our significant growth through 2007. We expect that footwear will constitute our principal product line for the foreseeable future. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands, preferences and fashion trends, and our footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional footwear designs that appeal to consumers. As our core products have matured in certain markets, we have generally experienced less demand for those core products. Likewise, we may experience a decline in demand for our products if counterfeit or imitation products gain market share. If the popularity of our footwear declines, if we are unable to successfully expand our footwear line or if new designs do not generate wide customer appeal,we may experience, among other things: •lower sales; •loss of retail customers; •excess inventories; •inventory markdowns and discounts provided to retailers; •deterioration of our brand image; and •lower revenues and gross and operating margins, as a result of price reductions. 14 Table of Contents Further, we could experience a decline in our revenues and earnings from any or all of the above. Given the limited history of our Crocs brand, it is difficult to evaluate whether our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers' orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations, consolidation, contraction, and closings, as well as fashion trends, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand and, if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the footwear industry, changes in consumer preferences, and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 2009, we sold a significant amount of inventory that was being carried at low or no cost, which was accretive to our gross margin during the year. We may not be able to repeat this revenue, or gross margins, at this level in the future. During the third quarter of 2008, consistent with our quarterly practice, we evaluated the value of our inventory on hand. In light of the negative economic conditions due to the global economic downturn, the forecasts prevailing at the time and the amount of inventory that we were carrying after what has traditionally been our strongest selling season, we forecasted that 8.3 million pairs of shoes were impaired because we estimated that the market value of these shoes was less than their cost. We wrote this inventory down to a level that we believed was realizable. These write-downs depended in part on estimates of our ability to sell or dispose of the product through various channels, some of which were undeveloped or were not previously used by our Company. For example, our company-owned retail channel was relatively immature and undeveloped at the time. During the remainder of 2008 and in 2009, we sold substantially all of the impaired inventory primarily through our retail and internet channels, which grew rapidly and exceeded our expectations during the year. Much of this impaired inventory sold at prices higher than what we had previously estimated. The gross profit amount related to the sales of these units was accretive to our gross profit percentage during the year. The net positive effect of these sales on our gross profit during the year ended December 31, 2009 was $49.8 million. In addition, because we were executing against a plan to reduce inventories—particularly impaired inventories—during 2009, sales were higher during the year. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated $58.3 million in revenue from sales of impaired inventory units. The revenue and gross margin generated by sales of the previously impaired units and through our plan to reduce inventory reflect an unusual event and are not likely to be repeated in future periods. We believe that the macroeconomic conditions that arose in 2008 and that played a significant role in the estimates used in 2008 to calculate the net realizable value of our inventory were unusual. Going forward, we are making greater use of our now-established internal outlet channels (i.e. retail and internet) to address any impaired inventory. Further, we believe our retail and internet channels will provide us with greater visibility into and greater control of pricing on excess inventory. We believe that these changes are likely to lessen any future adjustments to inventory and reduce the impact of these issues on our gross margins. 15 Table of Contents Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for our business, and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our business. We are in the process of implementing numerous information systems designed to support several areas of our business, including warehouse management, order management, retail point-of-sale and internet point-of-sale as well as various systems that provide interfaces between these systems. These systems are intended to assist in streamlining our operational processes and eliminating certain manual processes. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S.; however, a majority of our cash is generated and held outside of the U.S. The risks attendant to holding cash abroad could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the U.S., but the majority of our cash is generated and held abroad. We consider unremitted earnings of subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. to be indefinitely reinvested and it is not our current intent to change this position. Cash held outside of the U.S. is primarily used for the ongoing operations of the business in the locations in which the cash is held. Most of the cash held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S., but under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. In some countries, repatriation of certain foreign balances is restricted by local laws and could have adverse tax consequences if we were to move the cash to another country. Certain countries, including China, may have monetary laws which may limit our ability to utilize cash resources in those countries for operations in other countries. These limitations may affect our ability to fully utilize our cash resources for needs in the U.S. or other countries and may adversely affect our liquidity. Since repatriation of such cash is subject to limitations and may be subject to significant taxation, we cannot be certain that we will be able to repatriate such cash on favorable terms or in a timely manner. If we continue to incur operating losses and require cash held in international accounts for use in our U.S. operations, a failure to repatriate such cash in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our asset-backed revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial metrics and ratios and restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility. A breach of those covenants may cause us to be in default under the facility, and our lenders could foreclose on our assets. The credit agreement for our asset-backed revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a certain level of tangible net worth and a minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio on a quarterly basis. A lack of revenue growth, a failure to meet our tangible net worth level or an inability to control costs could negatively impact our ability to meet these financial covenants and, if we breach such covenants or any of the restrictive covenants described below, the lenders could either refuse to lend funds to us or accelerate the repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. We might not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness upon a default. If we are unable to repay the indebtedness, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding against us or collection proceedings with respect to our assets, all of which secure our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility. 16 Table of Contents The credit agreement also contains certain restrictive covenants that limit, and in some circumstances prohibit, our ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt; •sell, lease or transfer our assets; •pay dividends; •make capital expenditures and investments; •guarantee debts or obligations; •create liens; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; and •enter into certain merger, consolidation or other reorganizations transactions. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand the current or future downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, any of which could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt and are not subject to such restrictions. We have had issues maintaining sufficient liquidity in the past, and if we are unable to maintain sufficient liquidity or obtain any additional capital necessary to meet our requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Although we obtained an asset-backed revolving credit facility of up to $30 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 and we had approximately $180.6 million in working capital as of December 31, 2009, we may need to seek additional capital if we incur operating losses during fiscal year 2010, our revenues continue to decline or we are unable to reduce operating costs, resulting in a failure to meet the financial covenants under our credit agreement or to otherwise maintain cash flows that will be sufficient to meet our ongoing operating needs. A default under our revolving credit facility could restrict or terminate our access to our borrowing capacity under the facility and materially impair our ability to meet our obligations as they come due. Any default, or a failure to generate sufficient cash from operations, may require us to seek additional capital or modifications to our revolving credit facility, which may not be available. There can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, especially due to current conditions and uncertainty in the global credit markets. Our ability to fund working capital needs, planned capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which, in turn, are subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products, and the absence of continued market demand for these products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We generated approximately 94.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 from sales of our footwear products, which consisted of more than 230 models, including Ocean Minded, Bite, YOU by Crocs™ and our Crocs footwear models. Sales of our Beach and Cayman (soon to be renamed Crocs Classic) models accounted for approximately 16% of our total footwear unit sales in the year ended December 31, 2009. A high portion of our Crocs footwear models are developed from the same base design as these classic models and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these models or related products in the foreseeable future. Because we are 17 Table of Contents dependent on a line of footwear models that have substantial similarities, factors such as changes in consumer preferences and general market conditions in the footwear industry may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than on our competitors. In addition, other footwear companies have introduced products that are substantially similar to our footwear models, which may reduce sales of our footwear products. In the event that consumer preferences evolve away from our footwear models or from casual lifestyle footwear in general, or if our retail customers purchase similar products sold by our competitors, the resulting loss of sales, increase in inventories and discounting of our products are likely to be significant, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operations. Expanding our footwear product line may be difficult and expensive. If we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected and we may not be able to maintain or grow our current revenue levels or our revenues may continue to decline. Our ability to maintain or grow our current revenue levels is founded primarily on the continued sales of our footwear, and we intend to continue to refine the number of models offered in our footwear product line to broaden the appeal of our products to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, our revenues may decline further, our brand image may suffer, our operating performance may decline and we may not be able to execute upon our growth plans. In producing new footwear models, we may encounter difficulties that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing products. For example, once we begin to design a new footwear model, it can take six to nine months to progress to full production because of the need to fabricate new molds and to implement modified production tooling and revised manufacturing techniques. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail and wholesale distribution, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of new models and product lines and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products in certain target markets; as such, we may set the prices of new models too high for the market to bear or we may not provide the appropriate level of marketing in order to educate the market and potential consumers about new products. Achieving market acceptance will require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general, and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts effectively. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we introduce could impede our ability to maintain or grow our current revenues, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position, and result in long-term harm to our business. Failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and counterfeiting of our brands could divert sales, damage our brand image and adversely affect our business. We utilize trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, and trade dress and designs on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other 18 Table of Contents intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success and our competitive position. We periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging another party's products on the basis of trademark or design or utility patent infringement, or if we are required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations by resulting in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. We have taken actions to protect our intellectual property rights, some of which are described in Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings. The actions we have taken or those we will take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary or other rights. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We have registered Crocs as a trademark for footwear in over 45 countries, including Aruba, Australia, the European Union, Israel, Indonesia, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Antilles, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Peru, Romania, Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and Vietnam. As of December 31, 2009, we have applied to register Crocs and the Crocs logo as trademarks in over 30 other jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. In addition, in certain countries we have extended the scope of our trademark registrations and applications for both the Crocs mark and logo to cover non-footwear products such as sunglasses, goggles, knee pads, watches, luggage, and some of our internet sales activities. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights outside the U.S. will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or, if necessary, successfully challenge another party's counterfeit products or products that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights on the basis of trademark or patent infringement. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the U.S., and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information related to, among other things, the formulation of the Croslite material and product development, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third-party manufacturers and compounding facilities may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use to try to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may not effectively protect such intellectual property and information and may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information, or other proprietary information, others, including our competitors, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. Because we depend on third-party manufacturers located in China, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. In the year ended December 31, 2009, third-party manufacturers produced approximately 73% of our footwear products as measured by number of units; one such manufacturer in China produced 19 Table of Contents approximately 36% of our third-party footwear products. We depend on these manufacturers' ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third-party manufacturers and as such, have experienced at times, delays or inabilities to fulfill customer demand and orders. While we are increasing our communication and relationships with our third-party manufacturers, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to fully mitigate any delays in the production and shipment of our products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with these third-party manufacturers, including the third-party manufacturer that produced the majority of our footwear products in the year ended December 31, 2009, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third-party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our Company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third-party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third-party manufacturers, including those stemming from political risk, may harm our business and could result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture a portion of our Crocs products, which represents a fixed cost for the company. Any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2009, we produced approximately 27% of our footwear products at our Company-operated manufacturing facilities in North America and Italy. Our ownership of these facilities adds fixed costs to our cost structure which are not as easily scalable as variable costs. The manufacturing of our products from Croslite requires the use of a complex process and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. We may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment, such as molds and injection molding machines. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted above with respect to our third-party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding Croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from two suppliers. We do not have any formal purchase agreement with the providers of the elastomer resins, and we purchase these elastomer resins on a purchase order basis. If the suppliers we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the 20 Table of Contents elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of the Croslite material, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers, and diminished brand loyalty. Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing, shipping and financing. Because third-party manufacturers manufacture a majority of our products outside of our principal sales market, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. Sales of our products are likely to be subject to seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. From our inception through 2007, we experienced significant growth in our business. Beginning in 2008, our business contracted due in part to the global economic crisis. As a result of these growth patterns, there is still uncertainty of the degree to which sales of our footwear products will be subject to seasonality. We expect that our business, similar to other vendors of footwear and related merchandise, will be subject to seasonal variation. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the majority of our revenues were attributable to our footwear styles that are more suitable for fair weather. We believe many vendors that market footwear products suited for warm weather normally experience their highest sales activity during the second and third quarters of the calendar year, particularly when there is a revenue concentration in countries in the northern hemisphere. While we have introduced footwear models that are more suitable for cold weather, such as the Mammoth, Blitzen, Claire and Gretel styles, we expect that demand for our products, and therefore our sales, may continue to be subject to seasonal variations and significantly impacted by weather conditions. In addition, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new model introductions or general economic or consumer conditions. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular period may fluctuate. This could lead to results outside of analyst and investor expectations which could cause the volatility in our stock price to increase. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly and various securities analysts follow our financial results and frequently issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts' estimates of our future performance. The analysts' estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations of our business. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. 21 Table of Contents We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended on December 31, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures, and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and the independent auditors. Continued documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the ongoing course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the annual deadlines imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of such material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, such deficiencies may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on, the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. If we are forced to defend against such third-party claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain products. Thus, such third-party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any such reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse affect on our business. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit that may result in substantial costs and could divert management's attention. Starting in November 2007, certain stockholders filed several purported shareholder class actions in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act based on alleged statements made by us between July 27, 2007 and October 31, 2007. 22 Table of Contents We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in complaints filed by investors in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The first complaint was filed in November 2007; several other complaints were filed shortly thereafter. These actions were consolidated and, in September 2008, the Court appointed a lead plaintiff and counsel. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in December 2008. The amended complaint purports to state claims under Section 10(b), 20(a), and 20A of the Exchange Act on behalf of a class of all persons who purchased our stock between April 2, 2007 and April 14, 2008 (the "Class Period"). The amended complaint alleges that, during the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading public statements about us and our business and prospects and that, as a result, the market price of our stock was artificially inflated. The amended complaint also claims that certain current and former officers and directors traded our stock on the basis of material non-public information. The amended complaint seeks compensatory damages on behalf of the alleged class in an unspecified amount, interest, and an award of attorneys' fees and costs of litigation. The Company believe the claims lack merit and intends to defend the action vigorously. Motions to dismiss are currently pending with the Court. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and because the litigation is at a preliminary stage, we cannot at this time accurately predict the ultimate outcome of the matter, or of the amount or range of potential loss, if any. It is possible that this action could be resolved adversely to us. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may, in the future, be the target of additional proceedings, and the present or future proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Our business could suffer if our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We require our third-party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to do business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third-party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third-party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer's actions could result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and the value of our brand, and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. We have experienced significant management turnover. Effective March 18, 2009, John H. Duerden was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer as a successor to our former President and Chief Executive Officer, Ron Snyder. Mr. Snyder remained a Director until June 30, 2009. Effective December 31, 2009, Erik Rebich resigned as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Effective January 1, 2010, Daniel P. Hart was appointed as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Secretary. In addition, we have experienced a significant amount of turnover in our extended leadership team as we seek to reorganize our internal reporting structure. High turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In some cases, we may be required to pay significant amounts of severance to terminated management employees. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating 23 Table of Contents objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. We are reliant on key personnel and our officers, including our new Chief Executive Officer, John Duerden. To expand our business we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. As a result of the difficult global macroeconomic conditions and extremely challenging retail environments, we implemented restructuring initiatives and workforce reductions, which required us to incur restructuring charges. Our restructuring initiatives may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. We may also need to take additional restructuring charges in the future. Our business has been adversely affected by challenging retail environments in many of the markets in which we operate due in large part to the current global economic downturn. Accordingly, in 2008 and 2009, we took actions to reduce our cost structure to better align with our lower sales volumes and revenues including, but not limited to, the closure and consolidation of certain warehouse, manufacturing and distribution space; headcount reductions; and termination of certain sponsorship contracts that no longer met our longer-term marketing strategy. These actions, among other things, resulted in a reduction to our global workforce and required us to incur restructuring charges. We recognized restructuring charges of approximately $14.7 million and $8.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These restructuring plans, or any restructuring plans undertaken in the future, may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the reduction in workforce to seek employment elsewhere. We run the risk that our restructuring efforts may not sufficiently reduce costs to maintain profitability, or, in the alternative, our restructuring efforts may result in too many reductions, which could adversely affect our operations and may potentially stunt our growth. Additional attrition or an inability to find adequate replacements for lost personnel could adversely affect our ability to meet our operational or financial goals. Although we have no current plans to do so, it is possible that we may need to implement additional restructuring in the future, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our wholesale customers and to the success of such wholesale customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our wholesale customers to continue to carry our products, the expansion to new wholesale customers, and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our wholesale customers, and sales to our wholesale customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our customers' orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. 24 Table of Contents Furthermore, many of our wholesale customers compete with each other and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our wholesale customers by selling our products to consumers via the internet and through our company-owned retail locations. If our wholesale customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. Likewise, our consumer-direct channels (company-owned retail and internet) grew 42% in 2009 and we plan to further grow these channels in the future, which could exacerbate this issue. The changes in the global economy could also affect our customers' liquidity and capital resources and their ability to meet their payment obligations to us, which in turn would decrease their credit terms and our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and capital resources. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable aging and have recorded appropriate reserves as we deem appropriate. We face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our Crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors: •have significantly greater financial resources than us; •have more comprehensive product lines than ours; •have broader market presence than we have in wholesale stores, or have more Company-operated retail stores than we do; •have longer-standing relationships with wholesalers than us; •have a longer operating history than ours; •have greater distribution capabilities than us; •have stronger brand recognition than us; and •spend substantially more than we do on product advertising and sales. Our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate, and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. 25 Table of Contents We may fail to successfully streamline our distribution network or introduce our products in new markets abroad and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our strategy, we plan to streamline our supply chain network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: •the strength of the Crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; •our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; •our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and •our ability to consolidate our network to leverage resources and simplify our fulfillment process. If we are unable to successfully streamline our supply chain and sell our Crocs-branded products in new markets abroad, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We conduct, and in the future expect to conduct, a significant portion of our activities outside the U.S., and, therefore, we are subject to the risks of international commerce. We use third-party manufacturers located in foreign countries; we operate manufacturing facilities located in North America and Italy; and we sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: •tariffs, anti-dumping fines, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; •delays associated with the manufacture, transportation and delivery of foreign-sourced products; •increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; •delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; •foreign currency fluctuations, for which we do not currently engage in any material hedging transactions; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •changing economic conditions; •restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; •changes in governmental policies and regulations; •political unrest, changes in law, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; •expropriation and nationalization; •difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and •difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, our manufacturing activity outside of the U.S., including the production of our products by third-party manufacturers, particularly in China, is subject to risks of poor infrastructure, 26 Table of Contents shortages of equipment, and labor unrest, in addition to those risks noted above. Once our products are manufactured, we may also suffer delays in distributing our products due to work stoppages, strikes, or lockouts at the ports where our products arrive. Such labor disruptions could result in product shortages and delays in distributing our products to retailers. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. In addition, during 2009, we generated $389.1 million, or 60.2%, of our revenues outside of the U.S., and in the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated approximately $400.3 million, or 55.5% of our revenues outside of the U.S. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. We may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. The market has recently seen significant volatility in the value of the dollar against other foreign markets and currency. We purchase products and supplies from third parties in U.S. dollars and receive payments from certain of our international customers in foreign currencies. The cost of these products and supplies sourced overseas, and payments received from customers, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced $0.7 million net in foreign currency exchange rate gains. Likewise, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations had the effect of decreasing our U.S. dollar basis revenue by $14.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. We are exploring new opportunities to hedge our foreign currency risk. Acquisitions may be difficult to identify and successfully integrate into our business and could have other adverse consequences. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, provided we may do so under our current bank arrangements. We expect to consider other opportunities to acquire or make investments in other businesses and products that could enhance our manufacturing capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In the event we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be diluted. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or effectively manage the combined business following completion of the acquisition. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to any of the following factors: •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of the acquisition; •the potential loss of key employees; or 27 Table of Contents •risks associated with entering new product lines or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operations, which, among other things, may result in restructuring or impairment charges, or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third-party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of us or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 