ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations. United States federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws was The Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (HBA), which regulates outdoor advertising on the 306,000 miles of Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems roads. HBA regulates the locations of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs, and requires just compensation for takings. Size, location, lighting and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital, are regulated by federal, state and local governments. Some states have enacted bans on billboard advertising altogether. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of displays under various state and local laws, including amortization. Amortization permits the display owner to operate its display which does not meet current code requirements for a specified period of time, after which it must remove or otherwise conform its display to the applicable regulations at its own cost without any compensation. Several municipalities within our existing markets have adopted amortization ordinances. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild or replace nonconforming displays and require us to remove or modify displays not in strict compliance with applicable laws. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. Such regulations and allegations have not materially impacted our results of operations to date, but if we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our results could suffer. Legislation has from time to time been introduced in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions attempting to impose taxes on revenues of outdoor advertising companies. Several jurisdictions have already imposed such taxes as a percentage of our gross receipts of outdoor advertising revenues in that jurisdiction. While these taxes have not materially impacted our business and financial results to date, we expect states to continue to try to impose such taxes as a way of increasing revenues. The increased imposition of these taxes and our inability to pass on the cost of these taxes to our clients could negatively affect our operating income. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry varies by region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Significant international regulations include the Law of December 29, 1979 in France, the Town and Country Planning (Control of Advertisements) Regulations 1992 in the United Kingdom, and Règlement Régional Urbain de l’agglomération Bruxelloise in Belgium. These laws define issues such as the extent to which advertisements can be erected in rural areas, the hours during which illuminated signs may be lit and whether the consent of local authorities is required to place a sign in certain communities. Other regulations limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays. For instance, the United States and most European Union countries, among other nations, have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenues, International client base and overall financial condition. We face intense competition in the outdoor advertising industry that may adversely affect the advertising fees we can charge, and consequently lower our operating margins and profits. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase the fees we charge our customers, which may consequently lower our operating margins and profits. Our advertising properties compete for audiences and advertising revenues with other outdoor advertising companies, as well as with other media, such as radio, magazines, newspapers, prime time television, direct mail, the Internet and telephone 14 Table of Contents directories. It is possible new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Competitive factors in our industry could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenues, numbers of advertising clients, advertising fees or profit margins. These factors include: • our competitors offering reduced advertising rates, which we may be unable or unwilling to match; • our competitors adopting technological changes and innovations we are unable to adopt or are delayed in adopting and that offer more attractive advertising alternatives than those we currently offer; • shifts in the general population or specific demographic groups to markets where we have fewer outdoor advertising displays; • our competitors securing more effective advertising sites than those sites where our displays are located; • our competitors’ abilities to complete and integrate acquisitions better than our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions; • our inability to secure street furniture contracts on favorable terms; and • development, governmental actions and strategic trading or retirement of displays, which, excluding acquisitions, may result in a reduction of our existing displays and increased competition for attractive display locations. Doing business in foreign countries creates certain risks not involved in doing business in the United States that may disrupt our International operations or cause us to realize lower returns from our International operations. Doing business in foreign countries involves certain risks that may not exist when doing business in the United States. The risks involved in foreign operations that could result in disruptions to our business or financial losses in our International operations against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions, foreign exchange restrictions and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings, investment restrictions or requirements, expropriations of property and changes in foreign taxation structures, each of which could reduce our profit from International operations; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States and government policies against businesses owned by foreigners, each of which could affect our ability to continue operations in or enter into an otherwise profitable market; • changes in foreign regulations, such as the decision in France to lift the ban on most retail advertising on television; • hostility from local populations, potential instability of foreign governments and risks of insurrections, each of which could disrupt our ability to conduct normal business operations; and • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities and diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries, each of which could cause financial losses in otherwise profitable operations. In addition, we may incur substantial tax liabilities if we repatriate any of the cash generated by our International operations back to the United States, due to our current inability to recognize any foreign tax credits associated with such repatriation. We are not currently in a position to recognize any tax assets in the United States that are the result of payments of income or withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Exchange rates may cause fluctuations in our results of operations that are not related to our operations. Because we own assets overseas and derive revenues from our International operations, we may incur currency translation losses or gains due to changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the United States 15 Table of Contents dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk Management — Foreign Currency Risk.” The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms. Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts require us to participate in competitive bidding processes, typically have terms ranging from 3 to 20 years and have revenue share or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our net income. Future acquisitions of businesses or properties could have adverse consequences on our existing business or assets. We may acquire outdoor advertising assets and other assets or businesses we believe will assist our clients in marketing their products and services. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: • possible failures of our acquisitions to be profitable or to generate anticipated cash flows, which could affect our overall profitability and cash flows; • entry into markets and geographic areas where our competitors are operating but where we have limited or no experience; • potential difficulties in integrating our operations and systems with those of acquired companies, causing delays in realizing the potential benefits of acquisitions; • diversion of our management team’s attention away from other business concerns; and • loss of key employees of acquired companies or the inability to recruit additional senior management to supplement or replace senior management of acquired companies. Antitrust regulations may limit future acquisitions due to our current inventory of advertising properties in certain markets. Additional acquisitions by us may require antitrust review by federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission or foreign antitrust agencies will not investigate, possibly challenge or seek divestitures or other remedies as a condition to not challenging future acquisitions. If those agencies take any such action, we may not be able to complete, or realize the desired benefits of, the proposed acquisition. The lack of availability of potential acquisitions at reasonable prices could harm our growth strategy. We face stiff competition from other outdoor advertising companies for acquisition opportunities. If the prices sought by sellers of these companies were to rise, we may find fewer acceptable acquisition opportunities. In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions could require the incurrence of additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance we will obtain the needed financing or we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the acquisition opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forgo that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional equity financing could result in dilution to our shareholders. 16 Table of Contents We have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. At December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness for borrowed money was $2.7 billion, approximately $2.5 billion of which is indebtedness owed to Clear Channel Communications. As of December 31, 2006, approximately $86.3 million of such total indebtedness (excluding interest) is due in 2007, $30.8 million is due in 2008, $64.0 million is due in 2009, $2.5 billion is due in 2010, $2.3 million is due in 2011 and $0.7 million thereafter. We may also incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our obligations and obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, inability to meet our debt obligations could cause us to default on those obligations. A default under any debt instrument could, in turn, result in defaults under other debt instruments. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. To service our debt obligations and to fund potential capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt obligations and to fund potential capital expenditures for display construction or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will also depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including our debt to Clear Channel Communications, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our future cash flow from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the debt with Clear Channel Communications, on or before maturity. We cannot assure we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including the debt with Clear Channel Communications, on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing debt, including the debt with Clear Channel Communications, and other future debt may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. The $2.5 billion note and agreements with Clear Channel Communications impose restrictions on our ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions or engage in other business activities and requires prepayment from substantially all proceeds from debt or equity raised by us. The $2.5 billion note and Master Agreement with Clear Channel Communications include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • issue any shares of capital stock or securities convertible into capital stock; • incur additional debt; 17 Table of Contents • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • repurchase our stock; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • merge or consolidate. The existence of these restrictions could limit our ability to grow and increase our revenues or respond to competitive changes. In addition, the note with Clear Channel Communications requires us to prepay it in full upon a change of control (as defined in the note), and, upon our issuances of equity and incurrences of debt, subject to certain exceptions, to prepay the note in the amount of net proceeds received from such events. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle Clear Channel Communications or other holders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. Additional restrictions on outdoor advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products. Out-of-court settlements between the major United States tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other United States territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Legislation regulating tobacco and alcohol advertising has also been introduced in a number of European countries in which we conduct business and could have a similar impact. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. A general deterioration in economic conditions may cause our clients to reduce their advertising budgets or to choose advertising plans other than outdoor advertising. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising and which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins or result in an impairment in the value of our assets. The impact of slowdowns on our business is difficult to predict, but they may result in reductions in purchases of advertising. In addition, to the extent our street furniture and transit businesses rely on long-term guaranteed contracts with government entities, we may suffer losses on those contracts in times of economic slowdowns. Our outdoor advertising properties and revenues may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events. The occurrence of extraordinary events with respect to our properties or the economy generally, such as terrorist attacks, severe weather conditions such as hurricanes or similar events may substantially decrease the use of and demand for advertising or expose us to substantial liability, which may decrease our revenues or increase our expenses. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions, contagious disease outbreaks or similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies of the United States and other foreign countries where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications We have a short operating history as a publicly traded company and our historical financial information prior to the IPO is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical combined financial information prior to the IPO included in this Annual Report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent publicly traded company during the periods presented or those results we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Our historical combined financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Clear Channel Communications. • Our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically have been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Clear Channel Communications. Subsequent to the IPO, Clear Channel Communications is not required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Clear Channel Communications, we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We may have a lower credit rating than Clear Channel Communications and may incur debt on terms and at interest rates that will not be as favorable as those generally enjoyed by Clear Channel Communications. • Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a publicly traded subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications. These changes could result in increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, stand-alone costs for services currently provided by Clear Channel Communications, the need for additional personnel to perform services currently provided by Clear Channel Communications and the legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with equity securities listed on a national stock exchange. We are obligated to continue to use the services of Clear Channel Communications under the Corporate Services Agreement until such time as Clear Channel Communications owns less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, or longer for certain information technology services, and, in the event our Corporate Services Agreement with Clear Channel Communications terminates, we may not be able to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us until such time or in a timely manner or on comparable terms. • Pursuant to a cash management arrangement, substantially all of our cash generated from our Americas operations is transferred daily by Clear Channel Communications into accounts where funds of ours and of Clear Channel Communications may be commingled. The amounts so held by Clear Channel Communications are evidenced in a cash management note issued by Clear Channel Communications to us. We do not have a commitment from Clear Channel Communications to advance funds to us, and we have no access to the cash transferred from our concentration account to the master account of Clear Channel Communications. If Clear Channel Communications were to become insolvent, we would be an unsecured creditor like other unsecured creditors of Clear Channel Communications and could experience a liquidity shortfall. Because Clear Channel Communications controls substantially all the voting power of our common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of December 31, 2006, Clear Channel Communications owned all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, representing approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to 20 votes and each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to 1 vote on all matters on which shareholders are entitled to vote. As a result, Clear Channel Communications controlled approximately 99% of the total voting power of our common stock. For so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election of all 19 Table of Contents members of our Board of Directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Clear Channel Communications will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because Clear Channel Communications’ interests as our controlling shareholder may differ from other shareholders’ interests, actions taken by Clear Channel Communications with respect to us may not be favorable to all shareholders. We have entered into a master agreement, a corporate services agreement, a trademark license agreement and a number of other agreements with Clear Channel Communications setting forth various matters governing our relationship with Clear Channel Communications while it remains a significant shareholder in us. These agreements, along with the $2.5 billion note, govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and allow Clear Channel Communications to retain control over, among other things, the continued use of the trademark “Clear Channel,” the provision of corporate services to us and our ability to make certain acquisitions or to merge or consolidate or to sell all or substantially all our assets. The rights of Clear Channel Communications under these agreements may allow Clear Channel Communications to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other shareholders may consider favorable. We are not able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Clear Channel Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Three of our directors continue to serve as directors of Clear Channel Communications. In addition, four of our executive officers continue to serve as executive officers of Clear Channel Communications. For as long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it has the ability to direct the election of all the members of our Board of Directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of Clear Channel Communications or service as a director or officer of both Clear Channel Communications and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Clear Channel Communications, (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity, (iii) employee retention or recruiting or (iv) our dividend policy. • Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Clear Channel Communications or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Clear Channel Communications and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our Board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. • Intercompany agreements. We have entered into certain agreements with Clear Channel Communications pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we reimburse Clear Channel Communications on a cost basis. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Clear Channel 20 Table of Contents Communications for certain of our businesses. Pursuant to the corporate services agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us, we are contractually obligated to utilize the services of the chief executive officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Executive Officer and the chief financial officer of Clear Channel Communications as our Chief Financial Officer until Clear Channel Communications owns less than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, or we provide Clear Channel Communications with six months prior written notice of termination. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. If Clear Channel Communications engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Clear Channel Communications will have no obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and Clear Channel Communications and its officers and directors who are officers or directors of our company, on the other hand. The policy provides that if Clear Channel Communications acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity. It also provides that if one of our directors or officers who is also a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer. If one of our officers or directors, who also serves as a director or officer of Clear Channel Communications, learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Clear Channel Communications and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the director or officer will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of Clear Channel Communications’ actions with respect to that corporate opportunity. This policy could result in Clear Channel Communications having rights to corporate opportunities in which both we and Clear Channel Communications have an interest. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that may not provide as many protections as those afforded to shareholders of other companies. Clear Channel Communications owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, and we are a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we may elect to utilize certain exemptions under the NYSE standards that free us from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements (i) that a majority of the Board of Directors consists of independent directors, (ii) that we have a Nominating and Governance Committee, and that such Committee be composed entirely of independent directors and governed by a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (iii) that we have a Compensation Committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the Committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (iv) for an annual performance evaluation of the Compensation Committee. We intend to continue to utilize certain of these exemptions and, as a result, we may not create or maintain a Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Nominating and Governance Committee, if created, and the Compensation Committee may not consist entirely of 21 Table of Contents independent directors, and our Board of Directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We only have the right to use the Clear Channel brand name, logo and corporate name for so long as Clear Channel Communications owns at least 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. If Clear Channel Communications’ ownership falls below such 50% threshold and we fail to establish in a timely manner a new, independently recognized brand name with a strong reputation, our revenue and profitability could decline. Our corporate name is “Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.,” and we and our subsidiaries currently use the Clear Channel brand name and logo in marketing our products and services. Pursuant to a trademark license agreement, Clear Channel Communications grants us the right to use the “Clear Channel” mark and logo in connection with our products and services and the right to use “Clear Channel” in our corporate name and the corporate names of our subsidiaries until 12 months after the date on which Clear Channel Communications owns less than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock. In the event our right to use the Clear Channel brand name and logo and corporate name expires, we will be required to conduct our business under a new brand name, which may not be immediately recognized by our clients and suppliers or by potential employees we are trying to recruit. We will need to expend significant time, effort and resources to establish a new brand name in the marketplace. We cannot guarantee this effort will ultimately be successful. If our effort to establish a new brand identity is unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Any future separation from Clear Channel Communications could adversely affect our business and profitability due to Clear Channel Communications’ strong brand and reputation. As a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, our businesses marketed many of their products and services using the “Clear Channel” brand name and logo, and we believe the association with Clear Channel Communications has provided many benefits, including: • a world-class brand associated with trust, integrity and longevity; • perception of high-quality products and services; • preferred status among our clients and employees; • strong capital base and financial strength; and • established relationships with U.S. federal and state regulators and non-U.S. regulators. Any future separation from Clear Channel Communications could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified dedicated sales specialists for our products and services. We may be required to lower the prices of our products and services, increase our sales commissions and fees, change long-term advertising and marketing agreements and take other action to maintain our relationship with our clients, suppliers and dedicated sales specialists, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any future separation from Clear Channel Communications also could cause some of our existing clients to choose to stop doing business with us, and could cause other potential clients to decide not to purchase our products and services because we are no longer part of Clear Channel Communications. We cannot accurately predict the effect a separation from Clear Channel Communications would have on our sales, clients or employees. The risks relating to a separation from Clear Channel Communications could materialize at various times, including: • if and when Clear Channel Communications reduces its ownership in our common stock to a level below 50% of the total voting power; and • if and when we are required to cease using the Clear Channel name and logo in our sales and marketing materials. 22 Table of Contents We will not have control over our tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel Communications. For so long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own at least 80% of the total voting power and value of our common stock, we and certain of our subsidiaries will be included in Clear Channel Communications’ consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we pay to Clear Channel Communications the amount of federal, foreign, state and local income taxes which we would be required to pay to the relevant taxing authorities if we and our subsidiaries filed combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns and were not included in the consolidated, combined or unitary tax returns of Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries. In addition, by virtue of its controlling ownership and the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications effectively controls all of our tax decisions. The Tax Matters Agreement provides that Clear Channel Communications has the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to us, to file all income tax returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Clear Channel Communications under the Tax Matters Agreement. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Clear Channel Communications and us. For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Clear Channel Communications is able to choose to contest compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Clear Channel Communications and detrimental to us. Moreover, notwithstanding the Tax Matters Agreement, federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Clear Channel Communications or other members of the group fail to make any United States federal income tax payments required by law, we would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for foreign, state and local income tax purposes where we file combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Clear Channel Communications or its subsidiaries for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to its shareholders, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for its tax-related liabilities in certain circumstances. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our Class B common stock to its shareholders in a distribution intended to be tax-free under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Code, we have agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates against any and all tax-related liabilities if such a spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) due to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the Tax Matters Agreement. If neither we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible under the Tax Matters Agreement for any such spin-off not being tax-free under Section 355 of the Code, we and Clear Channel Communications have agreed to each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure of such a spin-off to so qualify. Future sales or distributions of our shares by Clear Channel Communications could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock. Clear Channel Communications may sell all or part of the shares of our common stock it owns or distribute those shares to its shareholders, including pursuant to demand registration rights described in the Registration Rights Agreement. Sales or distributions by Clear Channel Communications of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. Clear Channel Communications has advised us it currently intends to continue to hold all of our common stock it owns. However, Clear Channel Communications is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. Consequently, we cannot assure you Clear Channel Communications will maintain its ownership of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents The terms of our arrangements with Clear Channel Communications may be more favorable than we will be able to obtain from an unaffiliated third party, and we may be unable to replace the services Clear Channel Communications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms. We and Clear Channel Communications entered into a Corporate Services Agreement. Pursuant to the Corporate Services Agreement, Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates agree to provide us with corporate services, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, executive officer services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services and procurement and sourcing support. We negotiated these arrangements with Clear Channel Communications in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. Although Clear Channel Communications is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the term of the Corporate Services Agreement, we cannot assure you these services will be sustained at the same level after the expiration of that agreement, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the amount we pay Clear Channel Communications for the services will be as favorable to us as that which may be available for comparable services provided by unrelated third parties. Other agreements with Clear Channel Communications also govern our relationship with Clear Channel Communications and provide for the allocation of employee benefit, tax and other liabilities and obligations attributable to our operations. The agreements also contain terms and provisions that may be more or less favorable than terms and provisions we might have obtained in arm’s length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. If Clear Channel Communications ceases to provide services to us pursuant to those agreements, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase. The consummation of the merger between Clear Channel Communications and private equity funds sponsored by Bain Capital, LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners L.P., or any deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications, could adversely affect our access to the credit markets and increase our borrowing costs. The consummation of the merger between Clear Channel Communications and private equity funds, or, for so long as Clear Channel Communications maintains a significant interest in us, a deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications, could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs or impairing our access to the capital markets because of our reliance on Clear Channel Communications for availability under its revolving credit facility. If the merger is consummated we will no longer be able to access Clear Channel Communications’ revolving credit facility, in which event we may enter into a new credit facility. We expect the interest rate associated with a new facility would be greater than the rate we currently are charged. In addition, the interest rate we pay on the $2.5 billion note is based on the weighted average cost of debt for Clear Channel Communications, which we expect to increase if the proposed merger transaction is consummated. If that cost increases, whether as a result of the consummation of the merger or a deterioration in the financial condition of Clear Channel Communications, our borrowing costs also will increase. To the extent we do not pass on our increased borrowing costs to our clients, our profitability, and potentially our ability to raise capital, could be materially affected. Also, until the first date Clear Channel Communications owns less than 50% of our voting stock, pursuant to the Master Agreement between us and Clear Channel Communications, as well as pursuant to the $2.5 billion note, Clear Channel Communications will have the ability to limit our ability to incur debt or issue equity securities, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to grow our business. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our stock ownership by Clear Channel Communications, provisions in our agreements with Clear Channel Communications and our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other shareholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares of Class A common stock. For as long as Clear Channel Communications continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party. As a controlled company, we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement that our board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent 24 Table of Contents of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for shareholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our shareholders by written consent. Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on shareholder action by written consent, only become effective once Clear Channel Communications no longer controls us. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to Clear Channel Communications while it retains at least 15% or more of our Class B common stock. Although we believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. If Clear Channel Communications spins off our high vote Class B common stock to its shareholders and such shares do not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or other transfer subsequent to such distribution, the voting rights of our Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. In connection with any distribution of shares of our Class B common stock to Clear Channel Communications’ common shareholders in a spin-off, Clear Channel Communications may elect in its sole discretion whether our Class B common stock so distributed will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon a transfer or sale by the recipient subsequent to the spin-off or whether the Class B common stock will continue as high vote Class B common stock after the distribution. In the event the Class B common stock does not convert into Class A common stock upon a sale or transfer subsequent to a spin-off, the voting rights of Class A common stock will continue to be disproportionately lower than the voting rights of our Class B common stock. Therefore, the holders of our Class B common stock will continue to be able to direct the election of all the members of our board of directors and exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Class A common stock in the foreseeable future. We are a holding company with no independent operations and no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. We therefore are dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, pursuant to the covenants on the $2.5 billion note with Clear Channel Communications, our ability to pay dividends is restricted. Accordingly, if you purchase shares in us, the price of our Class A common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on your investment. This appreciation may not occur. Caution Concerning Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including the future levels of cash flow from operations. Management believes all statements expressing expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including our ability to negotiate contracts having more favorable terms and the availability of capital resources, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our financial performance. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and business performance. There can be no assurance, however, that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including: • the impact of general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • the impact of the geopolitical environment; 25 Table of Contents • our ability to integrate the operations of recently acquired companies; • shifts in population and other demographics; • industry conditions, including competition; • fluctuations in operating costs; • technological changes and innovations; • changes in labor conditions; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; • capital expenditure requirements; • the outcome of pending and future litigation settlements; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • interest rates; • the effect of leverage on our financial position and earnings; • taxes; • access to capital markets; and • certain other factors set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative, but by no means exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 