ITEM 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks, as well as any risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Other risks not presently known to us or not presently thought to be material could also effect our business, our financial condition or results of operations. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past two years, and if we fail to manage any future growth effectively we may experience greater difficulty in filling customer orders, declines in product quality, increases in costs or other operating difficulties. We have significantly expanded the nature and scope of our operations over the past two years, and we anticipate that substantial further expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and new market opportunities. Prior to June 2004, we distributed in the U.S. under our Crocs brand a limited range of footwear products manufactured and sold to us by Foam Creations. In June 2004, we acquired Foam Creations. Since that acquisition, we have expanded our product line to include more than 25 footwear models, and in addition, over the last two years, we expanded from: · 136 employees at June 30, 2004, to approximately 2,900 employees at December 31, 2006; and · $13.5 million in revenues in the year ended December 31, 2004, to $354.7 million in revenues in the year ended December, 2006. The expansion of the scope and nature of our business and the growth in the number of employees, customers and other third parties with whom we have relationships, and in the number of facilities we use for manufacturing, distribution, and corporate operations, have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management and our information systems and resources. To manage growth in our operations, we will need to increase the number of people we employ, upgrade our existing financial and reporting systems as well as improve our business processes and controls. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in greater difficulty in completely filling customer orders, declines in product quality or increases in costs or other production and distribution difficulties, any of which could adversely impact our business performance and operating results. The popularity of our Crocs footwear may not continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the recent past or may decline, which would have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Our recent growth is substantially attributable to sales of Crocs footwear, which represented approximately 96.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect that footwear will constitute our principal product line for the foreseeable future. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and preferences and fashion trends, and our Crocs footwear may not remain popular or we may fail to develop additional models that appeal to consumers. If the popularity of our Crocs footwear declines or does not expand in the future, we may experience, among other things: · lower sales; · loss of retail customers; · excess inventories; · inventory markdowns and discounts provided to retailers; · deterioration of our brand image; and · lower gross and operating margins, as a result of price reductions. 11 Given the limited history of our Crocs brand, it is especially difficult to evaluate whether our products will hold long-term consumer appeal. Our current management information systems may not be sufficient for the growth of our business, and planned system improvements may not be successfully implemented on a timely basis or be sufficient for our growing business. We used approximately $8.7 million of the net proceeds from our initial public offering to upgrade our financial reporting systems and to implement new information technology systems to better track our business, streamline our financial reporting, and improve our internal controls. However, for certain business planning, finance and accounting functions, we still rely on manual processes that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to our new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to use the Crocs name or logo, and competitors may sell products that are substantially similar to our Crocs footwear, or may produce counterfeit versions of our products, and such competing or counterfeit products could divert sales and may damage our brand image. We believe our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, issued and pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. From time to time, we have identified competitors selling products that are very similar in design to certain of our Crocs footwear models, and that are manufactured from what may be comparable materials to our products. We believe that some of these products may infringe our intellectual property rights. Given the increased popularity of our Crocs brand, we believe there is a high likelihood that counterfeit products or other products infringing on our intellectual property rights will continue to emerge, seeking to benefit from the consumer demand for Crocs footwear. In order to protect our brand, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. In addition, enforcing rights to our intellectual property may be difficult and expensive, and we may not be successful in combating counterfeit products and stopping infringement of our intellectual property rights, particularly in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in the United States and some foreign countries. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our trademark and other intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our trademark and other intellectual property rights. For example, our attempts to register Crocs and our Crocs logo as trademarks have been challenged by a large apparel company, and certain jurisdictions have rejected our attempted registration of our logo as a trademark based upon such challenge and based upon trademarks owned by the same company and at least one other large apparel company. If we are unsuccessful in protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights, or if we were required to change our name or use a different logo, continued sales of such competing products by third parties could harm our brand and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Similarly, in our enforcement litigation against manufacturers of knock-off products, at least one manufacturer has alleged counterclaims 12 challenging the validity and enforceability of our patents and we expect that other defendants in the litigation may assert similar claims. We have registered Crocs as a trademark for footwear in Aruba, Australia, the European Union, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Antilles, New Zealand, Panama, and the World Intellectual Property Office. As of December 31, 2006, we have also applied to register Crocs and the Crocs logo as trademarks in 43 jurisdictions around the world, including the U.S., but such applications have not been approved and are currently pending. In addition, we have recently extended the scope of our trademark registrations and applications for both the Crocs mark and logo to cover non-footwear products such as sunglasses, goggles, knee pads, watches, luggage, and some of our internet sales activities. Although we believe that we have applied for trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where we are doing or intend to do business, there is a possibility that we have not applied to register the Crocs mark, the company logos, the individual brand names for our products or our marketing slogans in countries where we will do business in the future, and we have elected not to apply for trademark registrations for some marks in some jurisdictions. Furthermore, we may not obtain trademark registrations in connection with any applications that we do file and trademark protection, whether registered or common law, may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy our Crocs brand, expose us to trademark liability and impair our ability to compete effectively. In addition, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We believe our success may be enhanced by our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, and therefore have elected to pursue patent protection for our products in the U.S. and other countries. Currently, we have been issued one Community Design Registration and three Community Multiple Design Registrations in the European Union covering a total of ten shoe designs. Additional shoe design applications have received registrations in Australia, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, and South Korea, and we have been issued one utility patent and four design patents in the U.S., but we have not been granted any other utility patents or design patents in the U.S. or any utility patents in other countries. We do not know whether any of our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, and competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our issued patents, or our registered designs or patent applications that proceed to issuance. We cannot predict how the patent claims in our issued patents, or any patents issued from any pending or future patent application, will be construed, and such patents may not provide us with the ability to prevent the development, manufacturing, and/or marketing of competing products, or may be challenged by third parties on the basis of validity and enforceability. We also rely on trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information related to, among other things, the formulation of croslite and product development, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Using third party manufacturers may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. The agreements we use to try to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information may not effectively protect such intellectual property and information and may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to one of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may become known to others, including our competitors. Furthermore, as with any trade secret, confidential information, or other proprietary information, others, including our competitors, may independently develop or discover such trade secrets and information, which would render them less valuable to us. 13 We use our own warehouse, distribution, and fulfillment capabilities, and utilize third parties to conduct order fulfillment services for us. Any additional expenses incurred in connection with, or any disruption in the supply of our products that is caused by changes in our logistical infrastructure could adversely affect our business. In December 2006, we began operating a warehouse and order processing and customer order facility in Aurora, Colorado which has enabled us to move a portion of our distribution and fulfillment capabilities from Expeditors and Colorado Distribution to a company-operated warehouse reducing our reliance on third party distribution facilities. In May 2005, we began operating a warehouse and order processing and customer order facility in Niwot, Colorado that manages all internet, apparel, and accessories orders and shipments. We have established additional company-operated warehouse and fulfillment operations in Canada, China, Italy, Colorado, Hawaii, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Puerto Rico, and Singapore, and utilize third parties in Australia and Japan to provide such services to us. In recent periods, our third party vendors and company-operated warehouse, distribution, and fulfillment operations have been unable to entirely satisfy the increased demand for our products. The inability to process and deliver sufficient quantities of our products has prevented us from completely filling in a timely manner orders placed by our customers. Other possible interruptions which could prohibit us from timely customer deliveries could include the following: · Damage or destruction to the warehouse and distribution center used for our products due to fire, earthquake, or any other natural disaster; or · Disruptions in commercial shipping channels In the event that we or a third party are unable to conduct warehousing, distribution, and fulfillment activities in a cost effective, timely, and accurate manner, the distribution of our products may be adversely affected, which could result in harm to our relationships with our retail customers and consumers, a reduction in demand for our products, and additional expenses to us. Because we depend on third party manufacturers, we may face challenges in maintaining a sufficient supply of goods to meet sales demand, and we may experience interruptions in our supply chain. Any shortfall in the supply of our products may decrease our sales and have an adverse impact on our customer relationships. In the year ended December 31, 2006, third party manufacturers produced approximately 79.5% of our footwear products as measured by number of units, and one such manufacturer produced approximately 55.4% of our footwear products. Currently, we have footwear manufacturing arrangements with third party manufacturers located in China, Romania and the United States. We depend on these manufacturers’ ability to finance the production of goods ordered and to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity. We do not exert direct control over the third party manufacturers, so we may be unable to obtain timely delivery of acceptable products. In addition, we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these third party manufacturers, including the third party manufacturer that produced the majority of our footwear products in the year ended December 31, 2006, and any of them may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time or seek to increase the prices they charge us. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of products of an acceptable quality and price from our third party manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production in our company-operated manufacturing facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative third party manufacturers in a timely manner or at acceptable prices. Any disruption in the supply of products from our third party manufacturers may harm our business and could 14 result in a loss of sales and an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture a portion of our Crocs products, and any difficulties or disruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we produced approximately 20.5% of our Crocs footwear production at our company-operated manufacturing facilities in Canada, Mexico, and Italy. The manufacturing of our products from our proprietary closed-cell resin, which we refer to as croslite, requires the use of a complex process, and we may experience difficulty in producing footwear that meets our high quality control standards. We will be required to absorb the costs of manufacturing and disposing of products that do not meet our quality standards. These costs are primarily incurred in connection with the initial production of new products, although we may also experience increases in training costs when we initiate production of new products. Additionally, we may incur increased costs as a result of the introduction of new manufacturing equipment such as molds and injection molding machines. Any increases in our manufacturing costs could adversely impact our margins. Furthermore, our manufacturing capabilities are subject to many of the same risks and challenges noted above with respect to our third party manufacturers, including our ability to scale our production capabilities to meet the needs of our customers, and our manufacturing may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. Any disruption to our manufacturing operations will hinder our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We continued to invest in our own manufacturing facility in Mexico acquired in April 2005, and subsequently added capacity at our adjacent facility that we leased. The expansion of our company-operated manufacturing capabilities will increase our fixed cost base, and could adversely impact our margins and results of operations in the event our sales decline or do not continue to grow. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for key production materials, and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. We depend on a limited number of sources for the primary materials used to make our Crocs footwear. We source the elastomer resins that constitute the primary raw materials used in compounding croslite, which we use to produce our footwear products, from one supplier. We do not have any formal purchase agreement with the provider of the elastomer resins, and we purchase these elastomer resins on a purchase order basis. If the supplier we rely on for elastomer resins were to cease production of these materials, we may not be able to obtain suitable substitute materials in time to avoid interruption of our production cycle, if at all. We may also have to pay materially higher prices in the future for the elastomer resins or any substitute materials we use, which would increase our production costs and could have a materially adverse impact on our margins and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain suitable elastomer resins or if we are unable to procure sufficient quantities of croslite, we may not be able to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Such failure could result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strained relationships with customers, and diminished brand loyalty. We are dependent on sales of a small number of products and the absence of continued market demand for these products would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We generated approximately 96.5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 from sales of our Crocs footwear, which consisted of more than 25 models. Sales of our Beach and Cayman (classics) 15 models accounted for approximately 62.2% of our footwear revenues in the year ended December 31, 2006. Most of our Crocs footwear models are developed from the same base design as our Beach and Cayman models, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these models or related products in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on a line of footwear models that have substantial similarities, factors such as changes in consumer preferences and general market conditions in the footwear industry may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than on our competitors. In addition, other footwear companies have introduced products that are substantially similar to our footwear models, which may reduce sales of our footwear products. In the event that consumer preferences evolve away from our footwear models or from casual lifestyle footwear in general, or our retail customers purchase similar products sold by our competitors, the resulting loss of sales, increase in inventories and discounting of our products are likely to be significant, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our business and operations. Expanding our Crocs footwear product line may be difficult and expensive, and if we are unable to successfully continue such expansion, our brand may be adversely affected, and we may not achieve our planned sales growth. Our growth strategy is founded primarily on the continued growth in sales of Crocs footwear, and we intend to continue to expand the number of models offered in our Crocs footwear product line to broaden the appeal of our products to consumers. To successfully expand our footwear product line, we must anticipate, understand, and react to the rapidly changing tastes of consumers and provide appealing merchandise in a timely manner. New footwear models that we introduce may not be successful with consumers or our brand may fall out of favor with consumers. If we are unable to anticipate, identify, or react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, we may not grow as fast as we plan or our sales may decline, and our brand image and operating performance may suffer. Furthermore, achieving market acceptance for new products will likely require us to exert substantial product development and marketing efforts, which could result in a material increase in our selling, general, and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that we will have the resources necessary to undertake such efforts. Material increases in our selling, general, and administrative expenses could adversely impact our results of operations. We may also encounter difficulties in producing new Crocs footwear models that we did not anticipate during the development stage. Our development schedules for new products are difficult to predict and are subject to change as a result of shifting priorities in response to consumer preferences and competing products. For example, once we begin to design a new footwear model, it can take six to nine months to progress to full production because of the need to fabricate new molds and to implement modified production tooling and revised manufacturing techniques. If we are not able to efficiently manufacture newly-developed products in quantities sufficient to support retail distribution, we may not be able to recoup our investment in the development of new models and product lines, and we would continue to be subject to the risks inherent in having a limited product line. Even if we develop and manufacture new footwear products that consumers find appealing, the ultimate success of a new model may depend on our pricing. We have a limited history of introducing new products, and we may set the prices of new models too high for the market to bear. Failure to gain market acceptance for new products that we introduce could impede our growth, reduce our profits, adversely affect the image of our brands, erode our competitive position, and result in long term harm to our business. Sales of our products are likely to be subject to seasonal variations, which could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. The footwear industry generally is characterized by significant seasonality of sales. Due to the growth in sales of our products in the past three years we cannot assess with certainty the degree to which sales of 16 our footwear products will be subject to seasonal variation, but a majority of our footwear is more suited for fair weather use, so we expect some degree of seasonality in the future. In addition, extended periods of unusually cold weather during the spring and summer could reduce demand for our footwear. Seasonal variations in consumer demand may result in fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter, and the effect of favorable or unfavorable weather on sales may be significant enough to materially affect our quarterly results. Wide variations in our quarterly operating results may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. We will incur significant time and expense in documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting, and any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), rules require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent auditors will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, to attest to our officers’ assessment of our internal controls. This process generally requires significant documentation of policies, procedures, and systems, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff and our outside auditors. Continued documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense, and may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our costs. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of such material weaknesses would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that internal controls are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. 17 Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and such claims may be costly to defend, may require us to pay licensing fees, damages, or other amounts, and may prevent, or otherwise impose limitations on, the manufacture, distribution or sale of our products. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. While we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology or products. If we are forced to defend against such third party claims, whether or not such claims are resolved in our favor, we could encounter expensive and time consuming litigation, which could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. For example, a company has filed a lawsuit against us claiming that our Aspen model infringed its trademark rights, and that by using the Aspen name and intellectual property we committed acts of false designation of origin, trademark dilution, unfair competition and unfair or deceptive trade practices. We subsequently changed the name of our Aspen model to the Endeavor and entered into a settlement agreement with the company. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may be required to pay damages or ongoing royalty payments, or comply with other unfavorable terms. Additionally, if we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of other companies, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us, and this may prevent us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our products. Thus, such third party claims may significantly reduce the sales of our products or increase our cost of goods sold. Any such reductions in sales or cost increases could be significant, and could have a material and adverse affect on our business. Our business could suffer if our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted ethical standards. We require our third party manufacturers to meet our standards for working conditions and other matters before we are willing to place business with them. As a result, we may not always obtain the lowest cost production. Moreover, we do not control our third party manufacturers or their respective labor practices. If one of our third party manufacturers violates generally accepted labor standards by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate its factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we likely would cease dealing with that manufacturer, and we could suffer an interruption in our product supply. In addition, such a manufacturer’s actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and the value of our brand and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. To expand our business we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time, and we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees, including any member of our management team. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. 18 Our financial success may be limited to the strength of our relationships with our retail customers and to the success of such retail customers. Our financial success is significantly related to the willingness of our retail customers to continue to carry our products, the expansion to new retail customers, and to the success of such customers. We do not have long term contracts with any of our retail customers, and sales to our retail customers are generally on an order-by-order basis and are subject to rights of cancellation and rescheduling by the customer. If we cannot fill our retail customers’ orders in a timely manner, the sales of our products and our relationships with those customers may suffer, and this could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and ability to grow our product line. In the year ended December 31, 2006, our ten largest retail customers accounted for approximately 26.1% of our revenues. If any of our major retail customers experiences a significant downturn in their business or fails to remain committed to our products or brand, then these customers may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. Furthermore, many of our retail customers compete with each other, and if they perceive that we are offering their competitors better pricing and support, they may reduce purchases of our products. In addition, we compete directly with our retail customers by selling our products to consumers via the internet and through our company-operated kiosks and stores. If our retail customers believe that our direct sales to consumers divert sales from their stores, this may weaken our relationships with such customers and cause them to reduce purchases of our products. We face significant competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, sales of our products may decline and our business could be harmed. The footwear industry is highly competitive. Recent growth in the market for casual footwear has encouraged the entry of new competitors into the marketplace and has increased competition from established companies. Some of our competitors are offering products that are substantially similar, in design and materials, to our Crocs-branded footwear. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing is also making it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete. Our competitors include most major athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. A number of our competitors: · have significantly greater financial resources than we have; · have more comprehensive product lines than ours; · have broader market presence than we have in, or have their own, retail outlets; · have longer-standing relationships with retailers than we have; · have a longer operating history than ours; · have greater distribution capabilities than we have; · have stronger brand recognition than we have; and · spend substantially more on product advertising and sales than we do. Our competitors’ greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. If we fail to compete successfully in the future, our sales and profits may decline, our financial condition may deteriorate, and the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. 19 If we do not accurately forecast consumer demand, we may have excess inventory to liquidate or have greater difficulty filling our customers’ orders, either of which could adversely affect our business. The footwear industry is subject to cyclical variations and declines in performance, as well as fashion risks, rapid changes in consumer preferences, the effects of weather, general economic conditions, and other factors affecting demand. These factors make it difficult to forecast consumer demand, and if we overestimate demand for our products, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers, resulting in markdowns and lower gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we could have inventory shortages, which can result in lost potential sales, delays in shipments to customers, strains on our relationships with customers and diminished brand loyalty. Moreover, because our product line is limited, we may be disproportionately affected by cyclical downturns in the footwear industry, changes in consumer preferences, and other factors affecting demand, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our production needs, exacerbating these risks. A decline in demand for our products, or any failure on our part to satisfy increased demand for our products, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may fail to successfully expand our distribution network or introduce our products internationally, and this may cause our results of operations to fall short of expectations. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to expand our distribution network and expand the sales of our products into new locations internationally. Successfully executing this strategy will depend on many factors, including: · the strength of the Crocs brand and competitive conditions in new markets that we attempt to enter; · our ability to attract and retain qualified distributors or agents or to develop direct sales channels; · our ability to use and protect the Crocs brand, and our other intellectual property, in these new markets and territories; and · our ability to successfully enter and compete in markets and territories, especially internationally, where we have little distribution experience and where our Crocs brand is not well known. If we are unable to successfully expand our distribution channels and sell our Crocs-branded products internationally, our business may fail to grow, our brand may suffer, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We conduct, and in the future expect to conduct, a significant portion of our activities outside the U.S., and therefore we are subject to the risks of international commerce. We use third party manufacturers located in foreign countries, we operate manufacturing facilities located in Canada, Mexico, and Italy and we sell our products to retailers outside of the U.S. Foreign manufacturing and sales activities are subject to numerous risks, including the following: · tariffs, import and export controls, and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; · increased transportation costs due to distance, energy prices, or other factors; · delays in the transportation and delivery of goods due to increased security concerns; · foreign currency fluctuations, for which we do not currently engage in any material hedging transactions; · restrictions on the transfer of funds; 20 · changing economic conditions; · restrictions, due to privacy laws, on the handling and transfer of consumer and other personal information; · changes in governmental policies and regulations; · political unrest, terrorism, or war, any of which can interrupt commerce; · expropriation and nationalization; · difficulties in managing foreign operations effectively and efficiently from the U.S.; and · difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations, and customs in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, our manufacturing activity outside of the U.S., including the production of our products by third party manufacturers, is subject to risks of poor infrastructure, shortages of equipment, and labor unrest, in addition to those risks noted above. Once our products are manufactured, we may also suffer delays in distributing our products due to work stoppages, strikes, or lockouts at the ports where our products arrive. Such labor disruptions could result in product shortages and delays in distributing our products to retailers. These factors and the failure to properly respond to them could make it difficult to obtain adequate supplies of quality products when we need them, resulting in reduced sales and harm to our business. In addition, during 2005, we generated approximately $8.1 million, or 7.5% of our revenues outside of the U.S., and in the year ended December 31, 2006, we generated approximately $112.5 million, or 31.7% of our revenues outside of the U.S., and we expect to expand our international sales and marketing operations in the future. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international sales operations, as noted above, as well as the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures. Acquisitions may be difficult to identify and successfully integrate into our business and could have other adverse consequences. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies. For example, in June 2004, we acquired Foam Creations; in October 2006, we acquired Fury and EXO, in December 2006, we acquired Jibbitz, and in February 2007, we acquired Ocean Minded. We expect to consider other opportunities to acquire or make investments in other businesses and products that could enhance our manufacturing capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In the event we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be diluted. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or effectively manage the combined business following completion of the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to any of the following factors: · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · harm to our existing business relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of the acquisition; 21 · the potential loss of key employees; or · risks associated with entering new product lines or markets in which we have little or no prior experience. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operations or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. If we experience any of the difficulties noted above, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. We purchase products and supplies from third parties in U.S. dollars and receive payments from certain of our international customers in foreign currencies. The cost of these products and supplies sourced overseas, and payments received from customers, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations could make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the third-party manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We intend to use derivative instruments and engage in hedging activities beginning in 2007. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences, and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of our company, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware corporate law each contain provisions that could delay, defer, or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management. Among other things, these provisions: · authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; · do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; · allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; · establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and 22 · classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, which may prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. ITEM 