Risk Factors” and changes to the methods we use to calculate capital adequacy ratios. Also, the maximum amount of net deferred tax assets that can be recorded for the purpose of calculating capital adequacy ratios without diminishing the amount of Tier 1 capital under Japanese capital adequacy regulations is 20% of Tier 1 capital. Our or our banking subsidiaries’ regulatory capital and capital adequacy ratios could decline due to such regulations. In addition, if the framework set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, upon which the Financial Services Agency’s rules concerning banks’ capital adequacy ratios are based, is changed or if the Financial Services Agency otherwise changes its banking regulations, our capital adequacy ratios could decline. If the capital adequacy ratios of us and our banking subsidiaries fall below specified levels, the Financial Services Agency could require us to take corrective actions, including, depending on the level of deficiency, submission of an improvement plan that would strengthen our capital base, a reduction of our total assets or a suspension of a portion of our business operations. In addition, some of our banking subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy regulations in foreign jurisdictions such as the United States, and our business could be adversely affected if their capital adequacy ratios fall below specified levels. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have negative effects on our funding costs and business operations. Credit ratings are assigned to Mizuho Financial Group, our banking subsidiaries and a number of our other subsidiaries by major domestic and international credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based on information furnished by us or obtained by the credit rating agencies from independent sources and are also influenced by credit ratings of Japanese government bonds and general views regarding the Japanese financial system as a whole. The credit ratings are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by the credit rating agencies at any time. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in, among other things, the following: • increased funding costs and other difficulties in raising funds; • the need to provide additional collateral in connection with financial market transactions; and • the termination or cancellation of existing agreements. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business will be adversely affected if we encounter difficulties in raising funds. We rely principally on deposits and debentures as our funding sources. In addition, we also raise funds in the financial markets. Our efforts to maintain stable funding, such as setting maximum limits on financial market funding and monitoring our liquidity position to apply appropriate funding policies, may not be sufficient to 13 Table of Contents prevent significant increases in our funding costs or cash flow problems if we encounter difficulties in attracting deposits or otherwise raising funds. Such difficulties could result, among other things, from any of the following: • adverse developments with respect to our financial condition and results of operations; • downgrading of our credit ratings or damage to our reputation; or • a reduction in the size and liquidity of the debt markets due for example to the decline in the domestic and global economy, concerns regarding the financial system or turmoil in financial markets and other factors. We will be exposed to new or increased risks as we expand the range of our products and services. We offer a broad range of financial services, including banking, securities, trust and other services. As the needs of our customers become more sophisticated and broader in scope, and as the Japanese financial industry continues to be deregulated, we have been entering into various new areas of business, including through business alliances, which expose us to new risks. While we have developed and intend to maintain risk management policies that we believe are appropriate to address such risks, if a risk materializes in a manner or to a degree outside of our expectations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to various laws and regulations, and violations could result in penalties and other regulatory actions. Our business and employees in Japan are subject to various laws and regulations, including those applicable to financial institutions as well as general laws applicable to our business activities, and we are under the regulatory oversight of the Financial Services Agency. Our businesses outside of Japan are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate and are subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions. Our compliance and legal risk management structures are designed to prevent violations of such laws and regulations, but they may not be effective in preventing all future violations. For example, in October 2007, Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. received a business improvement order from the Financial Services Agency relating to the receipt of non-public information from its parent bank and the use of such information for customer solicitation. Future violations of laws and regulations could result in regulatory action and harm our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to losses and reputational harm. Because we process a large number of transactions in a broad range of businesses, we are subject to the risk of various operational errors and misconduct, including those caused by employees. Our measures to reduce employee errors, including establishment of operational procedures, regular reviews regarding compliance with these procedures, employee training and automation of our operations, may not be effective in preventing all employee errors and misconduct. Significant operational errors and misconduct in the future could result in losses, regulatory action or harm to our reputation. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Problems relating to our information technology systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. We depend significantly on information technology systems with respect to almost all aspects of our business operations. Our information technology systems network, including those relating to bank accounting and cash settlement systems, interconnects our branches and other offices, our customers and various clearing and settlement systems located worldwide. Our efforts to sustain stable daily operations and development of contingency plans for unexpected events, including the implementation of backup and redundancy measures, may not be effective in preventing significant disruptions to our information technology systems caused by, 14 Table of Contents among other things, human error, accidents, hacking, computer viruses and development and renewal of computer systems. In the event of any such disruption, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected due to disruptions in our business operations, liability to customers and others, regulatory actions or harm to our reputation. Our reputation could be harmed and we may be subject to liabilities and regulatory actions if we are unable to protect personal and other confidential information. We handle various confidential or non-public information, including those of our individual and corporate customers, in the ordinary course of our business. The information management policies we maintain and enforce to prevent information leaks and improper access to such information, including those designed to meet the strict requirements of the Personal Information Protection Law of Japan which became fully effective in April 2005, may not be effective in preventing all such problems. Leakage of important information in the future could result in liabilities and regulatory actions and may also lead to significant harm to our reputation. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business would be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Many of our employees possess skills and expertise that are important to maintain our competitiveness and to operate our business efficiently. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient skilled employees through our hiring efforts and training programs aimed to maintain and enhance the skills and expertise of our employees, in which event our competitiveness and efficiency could be significantly impaired. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to establish, maintain and apply adequate internal controls over financial reporting could negatively impact investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. As a New York Stock Exchange-listed company and an SEC registrant, we have developed disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated pursuant thereto. Our management reports on, and our independent registered public accounting firm attests to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required, in our annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, our management is required to report on our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide its opinion concerning the report of our management, in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. To the extent any issues are identified through the foregoing processes, there can be no assurance that we will be able to address them in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still be unable to issue a report that concludes that our internal control over financial reporting are effective. In either case, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to risk of litigation and other legal proceedings. As a financial institution engaging in banking and other financial businesses in and outside of Japan, we are subject to the risk of litigation for damages and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse developments related to future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures may not adequately address unidentified or unanticipated risks. We devote significant resources to strengthening our risk management policies and procedures. Despite this, and particularly in light of the rapid evolution of our operations, our policies and procedures designed to identify, 15 Table of Contents monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risks are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. If our risk management policies and procedures do not function effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Transactions with counterparties in Iran and other countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors to avoid doing business with us or investing in our securities. U.S. law generally prohibits U.S. persons from doing business with countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism (the “Designated Countries”), which includes Iran, Cuba, Sudan and Syria, and we maintain policies and procedures to comply with U.S. law. Our non-U.S. offices engage in transactions relating to the Designated Countries on a limited basis and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including trade financing with respect to our customers’ export or import transactions, maintenance of correspondent banking accounts and interbank money market transactions. In addition, we maintain a representative office in Iran and provide project financing to entities in Iran. We also maintain correspondent banking accounts for and with, a number of Iranian banks that the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control identifies as “specially designated nationals.” We do not believe our operations relating to the Designated Countries are material to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable Japanese and U.S. laws and regulations. We are aware of initiatives by U.S. governmental entities and U.S. institutional investors, such as pension funds, to adopt laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with Iran and other Designated Countries. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to retain or acquire entities that are subject to such prohibitions as customers or investors in our securities. In addition, depending on socio-political developments, our reputation may suffer due to our association with the Designated Countries. The above circumstances could have a significant adverse effect on our business or the price of our securities. Our common stock may be subject to dilution as a result of conversion of our convertible preferred stock. Holders of our eleventh series class XI preferred stock may convert their shares to common stock by requesting us to acquire such shares and issue or transfer common stock to them at any time between July 1, 2008 and June 30, 2016, with mandatory conversion on July 1, 2016. Due to the dilution of our common stock that occurs as a result of the increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock upon such conversion, the price of our common stock could decline. We may be subject to risks related to dividend distributions. As a holding company, we rely on dividend payments from our banking and other subsidiaries for almost all of our income. As a result of restrictions, such as those on distributable amounts under Japan’s Company Law, or otherwise, our banking and other subsidiaries may decide not to pay dividends to us. In addition, we may experience difficulty in making, or become unable to make, dividend payments to our shareholders and dividend payments on the preferred securities issued by our overseas special purpose companies due to the deterioration of our results of operations and financial condition and/or the restrictions under the Company Law. For more information on restrictions to dividend payments under the Company Law, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” We may be adversely affected if economic or market conditions in Japan or elsewhere deteriorate. We conduct business operations in Japan as well as overseas, including in the United States, Europe and Asia. If general economic conditions in Japan or other regions were to deteriorate or if the financial markets 16 Table of Contents become subject to turmoil, we could experience weakness in our business, as well as deterioration in the quality of our assets. For example, in recent years, we incurred significant losses related to declines in the value of our investments in securitization products, an increase in credit-related costs, an increase in impairment of equity securities and others as a result of the impact of the dislocation in global financial markets and the worsening economic environment. Future deterioration in general economic conditions or financial market turmoil could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Amendments and other changes to the laws and regulations that are applicable to us could have an adverse effect on us. We are subject to various laws and regulations in and outside of Japan, including those applicable to financial institutions as well as general laws applicable to our business activities. If the laws and regulations that are applicable to us are amended or otherwise changed, for example in a way that restricts us from engaging in business activities that we currently conduct, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The market for financial services in Japan is increasingly competitive. Ongoing deregulation in Japan has significantly lowered the barriers to entry with respect to the provision of banking, securities, trust and other financial services. While such deregulation has the effect of increasing our own business opportunities, it also allows other major financial groups, foreign financial institutions, non-bank finance companies, government-affiliated entities such as Japan Post Bank and other financial services providers to enter into new business areas or expand existing businesses. As a result, competition in the financial services industry has been intensifying in recent years and could intensify further in the future. If we are unable to respond effectively to current or future competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business could be significantly disrupted due to natural disasters, accidents or other causes. Our headquarters, branch offices, information technology centers, computer network connections and other facilities are subject to the risk of damage from natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons as well as from acts of terrorism and other criminal acts. In addition, our business could be materially disrupted as a result of an epidemic such as influenza A (H1N1). Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our recovery efforts, including our implementation of contingency plans that we have developed such as establishing back-up offices, are not effective in preventing significant disruptions to our business operations caused by natural disasters and criminal acts. Negative rumors about us could have an adverse effect on us. Our business depends on maintaining the trust of depositors and other customers and market participants. Negative rumors about us, spread through media coverage, communications between market participants, Internet postings or otherwise, could lead to our customers and market participants believing factually incorrect information about us and harm our reputation. In the event we are unable to dispel such rumors or otherwise restore our reputation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our securities could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Shares Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the law of other jurisdictions. Our articles of incorporation, our regulations of board of directors and Japan’s Company Law govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from or less clearly defined than those that would apply if we were incorporated in another jurisdiction. For example, under the Company Law, only holders of 3% or more of the total voting rights or total outstanding shares are entitled to examine our accounting books and records. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the law of jurisdictions within the United States or other countries. For more information on the rights of shareholders under Japanese law, see “Item 10.B. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors, senior management or corporate auditors, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We are a joint stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of our directors, senior management and corporate auditors reside outside the United States. Many of the assets of us and these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce, against us or these persons, judgments obtained in the U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to Owning Our ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder and you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights. The rights of our shareholders under Japanese law to take actions such as voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, a holder of ADSs may not be entitled to the same rights as a shareholder. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you are not able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights, except through the depositary. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may affect the U.S. dollar value of our ADSs and dividends payable to holders of our ADSs. Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. In addition, the U.S. dollar amount of cash dividends and other cash payments made to holders of our ADSs would be reduced if the value of the yen declines against the U.S. dollar. 18 Table of Contents 