Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. Volatility or depressed market prices of our common stock could make it difficult for our stockholders to resell shares of our common stock when they want or at attractive prices. 34 Table of Contents The market for our common stock may not provide investors with sufficient liquidity or a market based valuation of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “MHR”. On February 15, 2011, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NYSE was $6.86 per share. The present volume of trading in our common stock may not provide investors sufficient liquidity in the event they wish to sell their shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that an active market for our common stock will be available for trading in large volumes. In addition, the stock market in general, and early stage public companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. If we are unable to further develop an active market for our common stock, our stockholders may not be able to sell our common stock at prices they consider to be fair or at times that are convenient for them, or at all. We will likely issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute our existing stockholders. In the future we may issue additional securities up to our total authorized and unissued amounts, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. As of February 15, 2011, there were 76,462,082 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and 4,000,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions or future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. As described in this report, we will issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with our acquisitions of NGAS Resources, Inc. and NuLoch Resources Inc., if and when such acquisitions are completed. Future issuances of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock at any given time. Additionally, we are engaged in the issuance and sale of our common stock from time to time through a sales agent pursuant to an “at the market” (ATM) sales agreement between us and the sales agent. Sales of shares of our common stock, if any, by the sales agent will be made in privately negotiated transactions or in any method permitted by law deemed to be an ATM offering as defined in Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, at negotiated prices, at prices prevailing at the time of sale or at prices related to such prevailing market prices, including sales made directly on the NYSE or sales made through a market maker other than on an exchange. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our executive officers, who collectively beneficially owned approximately 7.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 15, 2011. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us and changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; • the requirement for advance notice of director nominations to our board of directors and for proposing other matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings; 35 Table of Contents • requiring that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman, by a majority of our board of directors, by our chief executive officer or by our president; and • allowing our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, including vacancies resulting from removal or enlargement of the board of directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. As of February 15, 2011, our board of directors and executive officers collectively beneficially owned approximately 7.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Although this is not a majority of our outstanding common stock, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law, and the concentrated ownership of our common stock by our directors and executive officers, could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our senior credit facility limits the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment, which may not occur. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue additional preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our assets are subject to liquidation preferences in favor of the holders of our Series C Preferred Stock, which will impact the rights of holders of our common stock if we liquidate. We have issued and sold an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock. Under the certificate of designations of the Series C Preferred Stock, if we liquidate, holders of our Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to receive the repayment of their original investment, together with any accrued but unpaid dividends, before any payment is made to holders of our common stock. Our outstanding warrants which are exercisable for shares of our common stock, may be exercised, which would dilute our existing common stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding warrants that have a final maturity of 2012 exercisable for an aggregate of 963,034 shares of our common stock. Any such exercise will be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 36 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in the public markets and the issuance of shares of common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in future acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or by other parties in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of such shares in the public market could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common stock or securities convertible into, or exercisable for, shares of common stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in furtherance of our acquisitions and development of assets or businesses. If we use our shares for this purpose, the issuances could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock, depending on market conditions at the time of such an event, the price we pay, the value of the assets or business acquired and our success in exploiting the properties or integrating the businesses we acquire and other factors. 