ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk, and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report before investing in our securities. Risks Relating to our Business We currently have no product revenues and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenues. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. Currently, our only product candidates are CB7630, CB3304, CB6604, the noscapine analogs and CB1089, and none of these products are approved for sale by the FDA. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand and, potentially, future offerings. Currently, we believe we have cash on hand to fund our operations into 2010. However, changes may occur that would consume our available capital before that time, including changes in and progress of our development activities, acquisitions of additional product candidates and changes in regulation. Accordingly, we will need additional capital to fund our continuing operations. Since we do not generate any recurring revenue, the most likely sources of such additional capital include private placements of our equity securities, including our common stock, debt financing or funds from a potential strategic licensing or collaboration transaction involving the rights to one or more of our product candidates. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will likely experience dilution, which may be significant depending on the number of shares we may issue and the price per share. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt, we could incur significant interest expense and become subject to covenants in the related transaction documentation that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. However, we have no committed sources of additional capital and our access to capital funding is always uncertain. This uncertainty is exacerbated due to the current global economic turmoil, which has severely restricted access to the U.S. and international capital markets, particularly for biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Accordingly, despite our ability to secure adequate capital in the past, there is no assurance that additional equity or debt financing will be available to us when needed, on acceptable terms or even at all. If we fail to obtain the necessary additional capital when needed, we may be forced to significantly curtail our planned research and development activities, which will cause a delay in our drug development programs. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of approximately $59.8 million and from our inception in May 2003 through December 31, 2008 we have incurred a net loss of approximately $114.9 million. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: • continue to undertake pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and • hire additional personnel. 22 Table of Contents We also expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our securities. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision. We are a development-stage company and have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • continuing to undertake pre-clinical and clinical development of our product candidates; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; and • conducting sales and marketing activities. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, undertaking pre-clinical studies of our product candidates and undertaking clinical trials of our product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing in our common stock. If we do not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize CB7630 or any of our other product candidates, we will not be able to sell our product candidates, and our business and future prospects will be severely harmed. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize CB7630 or any of our other product candidates (CB3304, the noscapine analogs and CB1089), or any product candidate we acquire or develop in the future. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA-equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA an NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, any product candidate; • impose costly procedures on us; and • diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA may ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We may never obtain regulatory clearance for CB7630 or our other product candidates (CB7630, CB3304, CB6604, the noscapine analogs and CB1089). Failure to obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by leaving us without a saleable product, and therefore without any source of revenue, until another product candidate can be developed. There is no guarantee that we will ever be able to develop or acquire another product candidate. 23 Table of Contents In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize any drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates for sale outside the United States. Our near-term success is especially dependent on our ability to complete the development of CB7630, our lead product candidate. In April 2008, we initiated the first of two planned Phase III clinical trials of CB7630 in patients with advanced prostate cancer. We plan to initiate a second Phase III trial of CB7630 in the first half of 2009. Most of our time and financial resources have been devoted to the development of our CB7630 program. However, the results of our prior clinical trials of CB7630 to date do not provide assurance that the results of our ongoing and planned Phase III clinical trials will show acceptable safety or efficacy. If the results of these studies do not meet their endpoints or if we are otherwise unable to complete the development of or obtain regulatory approval to market CB7630, our business and our prospects to generate future revenues will be severely harmed. Our success depends on our ability to enhance our existing pipeline of product candidates through the in-license or other acquisition of products in clinical development. If our business development efforts are not successful, our ability to achieve profitability will be negatively impacted. Our current product portfolio consists of three drug candidates that are in clinical stages of development. We intend to continue to expand our current portfolio and in-license or acquire additional products that are currently in clinical development. If we are not successful in acquiring products that are currently in clinical development, then we will be dependent upon our ability to raise financing for, and the successful development and commercialization of, our current product candidates. Many other large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products in later-stage clinical development, in competition with us. We face additional competition from public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in establishing collaborative arrangements for products in later-stage clinical development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have, and substantially greater experience in conducting business development activities. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand our pipeline through the in-license or acquisition of compounds. While it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring additional product candidates, the cost of licensing drugs that are in clinical stages of development is generally significantly higher than the costs of licensing drugs that have not yet entered clinical development (pre-clinical drugs). Moreover, we expect that any product candidates we acquire will require significant additional development and other efforts prior to obtaining commercialization, if we ever commercialize any such product. The cost of licensing additional clinical stage drugs and completing the development necessary could be substantial and we may need to raise additional financing or issue additional equity securities, either of which may dilute the investment of existing stockholders, in order to acquire and further develop such new products. If we are able to enhance our existing pipeline of product candidates through the in-license or other acquisition of later-stage clinical development candidates, we may expose ourselves to new risks that were not identified prior to negotiating the in-license or other acquisition agreement that may prevent us from successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates. Even if we are able to in-license or acquire potential products, we may fail to identify risks during our due diligence efforts, or new risks may arise later in the development process of our product candidates, that we may be unable to adequately address. If we are unable to address such previously unidentified risks in a timely manner, we may be required to discontinue our development of one or more of our product candidates, and our business and results of operations will be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Many of our product candidates are in early stages of clinical trials and will require extensive pre-clinical testing and clinical testing. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may be required to delay or abandon development of such product candidate. Other than CB7630, our other product candidates (CB3304, including the noscapine analogs, CB6604 and CB1089) are in very early stages of development and will require substantial additional pre-clinical and clinical testing. We cannot predict with any certainty if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval for any of our product candidates or whether any such NDA will be accepted. In the event we do not receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we will be required to delay or terminate development of such product candidate. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. If clinical trials for any of our product candidates do not provide positive results, we may be required to abandon or repeat such clinical trials. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for future clinical trials. If the results of our clinical trials do not support our product candidate claims, the completion of development of such product candidates may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development of such product candidates altogether. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. For example, although the results of the clinical trials of CB7630 conducted to date have been promising, there is no assurance that those results will continue as we progress this drug candidate to later stage clinical trials. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, our clinical trials involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. 25 Table of Contents If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired. Even if the FDA approves CB7630 or one or more of our other product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; • cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; • availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenue for the foreseeable future, the failure of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. We are dependent upon third-party researchers and developers in the development of our product candidates, and such parties are, to some extent, outside of our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. Our intention to rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates exposes us to a number of risks that may delay the testing, development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates. We currently have no agreements for the commercial-scale manufacture of CB7630 or our product candidates. We intend to enter into agreements with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. If CB7630 or any of our other current product candidates or any product candidates we may develop or acquire in the future receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: • We may be unable to identify commercial suppliers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential suppliers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new supplier would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. 26 Table of Contents • Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. • If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates, or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Some of the drugs that we are attempting to develop, such as CB7630, CB3304, CB6604, the noscapine analogs and CB1089, will have to compete with existing therapies should we obtain regulatory approval for such drugs,. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions we are targeting. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the United States and abroad. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we hold certain exclusive patent rights, including rights under U.S. Patent Nos. 5,604,213; 5,618,807; 6,376,516; 6,673,814; 7,090,853; 5,190,935; 6,310,226; and U.S. patent applications as well as rights under foreign patents and patent applications. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the United States and in other countries, as appropriate. However, we cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents; • if and when patents will issue; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. 27 Table of Contents Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, it is our policy to require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into agreements which prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • abandon an infringing drug candidate; • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; • pay damages; • defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other healthcare payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payers, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payers increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if one of our product candidates is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate, to cover such drug. If government and other healthcare payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for one of our products, once approved, market acceptance of such product could be reduced. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. 28 Table of Contents We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to protect us against losses. We currently have no products that have been approved for commercial sale. However, the current and future use of our product candidates by us in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. We are highly dependent on our principal scientific, regulatory and medical advisors. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in pre-clinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, and sales and marketing. In particular, over the next 12 months, we expect to hire up to 8 new employees devoted to research and development and 6 new employees devoted to regulatory and quality assurance. We expect that the hiring of such additional personnel will increase our annual expenditures by approximately $1.0—$1.8 million. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. 29 Table of Contents Certain of our license agreements and contract research agreements require payments in foreign currencies and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Our license agreement with BTG plc for the in-license of CB7630 requires the payment of license maintenance fees and milestone payments, if any, in British pounds. We have also entered into service agreements with contract research organization that require payment in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. It is possible that we will enter into license agreements for future product candidates or contract research or other agreements that will require payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, may affect the actual amounts of these payments and potentially may be in excess of the amounts we have budgeted for payment of these fees and other payments. A substantial stockholder possesses a significant portion of our voting power and could exert significant control over our management and direction. Based on a recent filing made with the SEC, as of February 3, 2009, Dr. Lindsay Rosenwald beneficially owned approximately 3.48 million shares of our common stock, or 16.5% of our common stock, which included 3.18 million shares held by Horizon BioMedical Ventures, LLC, an entity of which Dr. Rosenwald is the managing member. Additionally, Russell H. Ellison, M.D., a director, serves as Executive Vice President for Paramount BioCapital, Inc., an entity owned by Dr. Rosenwald. As a result of its significant holding and Dr. Ellison’s position on our Board, Dr. Rosenwald has the ability to exert considerable influence over our management direction and affairs through the election and removal of our Board of Directors, and all other matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. We are contractually obligated to one of our directors to pay bonuses in the event of certain in-licensing of potential products, which may present a conflict of interest. Pursuant to our scientific advisory agreement with Dr. Arie S. Belldegrun, a director, we have agreed to pay a cash bonus to Dr. Belldegrun in the event we acquire a new technology and Dr. Belldegrun plays a certain role in such acquisition, which determination would be made by the disinterested members of our Board of Directors. We have agreed to pay a bonus if Dr. Belldegrun introduces the technology to us or actively participates in the evaluation process of a new technology that we subsequently acquire. The payment of a qualifying bonus would likely come within a short period of time after in-licensing, after which time we will likely be required to expend a significant amount of time and funds toward the testing and development of such technology before determining its scientific or economic viability. It is possible that we will obtain regulatory approval for only a small percentage, if any at all, of the technologies we acquire through the assistance of Dr. Belldegrun. The payment of a bonus at a time before we can fully determine the potential success of the product candidate creates a financial incentive for Dr. Belldegrun to assist us in obtaining licenses for product candidates that may not ultimately satisfy our goals, and creates a potential conflict of interest on the part of Dr. Belldegrun. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock price may be particularly volatile because we are a drug development company. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general, and early-stage drug development companies in particular, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • the development status of our drug candidates, particularly the results of our clinical trials of CB7630; • market conditions or trends related to the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, or the market in general; 30 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products, or other material events by our competitors or us; • disputes or other developments concerning our proprietary rights; • changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our financial performance; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussions of our business, products, financial performance, prospects, or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities such as chat rooms; • public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, testing or other research areas of biopharmaceutical companies, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs, or the safety of drugs; • regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries; and • economic and political factors. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become subject to this type of litigation, which is often extremely expensive and diverts management’s attention. Trading of our common stock is limited, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. Trading in our common stock, which is currently conducted on The NASDAQ Global Market, has been limited. This adversely affects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any return on an investment in our common stock will be realized, if at all, only when you sell shares of our common stock. 