Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FUTURE RESULTS, FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND CERTAIN IMPORTANT FACTORS In this report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other of our representatives to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from operators, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related to our Company We will require additional capital in order to achieve commercial success and, if necessary, to finance future losses from operations as we endeavor to build revenue, but we do not have any commitments to obtain such capital and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain adequate capital as and when required. The business of oil and gas acquisition, drilling and development is capital intensive and the level of operations attainable by an oil and gas company is directly linked to and limited by the amount of available capital. We believe that our ability to achieve commercial success and our continued growth will be dependent on our continued access to capital either through the additional sale of our equity or debt securities, bank lines of credit, project financing or cash generated from oil and gas operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had working capital of $5.0 million, including $15.3 million of cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have available to us a $75 million credit facility, of which $14.3 million is outstanding as of December 31, 2007, for purposes of financing our commitments towards the drilling and development of our most significant prospect, the Williston Basin properties. Based on our present working capital, available borrowings under the credit facility and current rate of cash flow from operations, we believe we have available to us sufficient working capital to fund our operations and expected commitments for exploration and development through, at least, December 31, 2008. However, in the event we receive calls for capital greater than, or generate cash flow from operations less than, we expect, we may require additional working capital to fund our operations and expected commitments for exploration and development prior to December 31, 2008. In addition, we are required to redeem our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock at a redemption price equal to the aggregate stated value plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, no later than October 2, 2008. Unless we are able to refinance the Series A Preferred Stock using our equity, we will need to raise additional capital in order to effect a cash redemption of the preferred shares. [16] We will seek to obtain additional working capital through the sale of our securities and, subject to the successful deployment of our cash on hand, we will endeavor to obtain additional capital through bank lines of credit and project financing. However, other than our existing credit facility, we have no agreements or understandings with any third parties at this time for our receipt of additional working capital and we have no history of generating significant cash from oil and gas operations. Consequently, there can be no assurance we will be able to obtain continued access to capital as and when needed or, if so, that the terms of any available financing will be subject to commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to access additional capital in significant amounts as needed, we may not be able to develop our current prospects and properties, may have to forfeit our interest in certain prospects and may not otherwise be able to develop our business. In such an event, our stock price will be materially adversely affected. We do not have a significant operating history and, as a result, there is a limited amount of information about us on which to make an investment decision. We were incorporated in June 1997 to engage in the design and manufacturing of children’s apparel. We terminated that business line in 1999 and since then have been engaged in the pursuit of alternative lines of business. In late 2004, we began to focus our attention on oil and gas exploration and development in the United States. In April 2005, we commenced assembling our present management team. In July 2005, we acquired our initial exploratory drilling prospects and commenced drilling activities in November 2005. In December 2005, we commenced production from our first oil and gas prospects and received our first revenues from oil and gas production in February 2006. In February 2007 we acquired a 43% average working interest in 15 producing oil fields and approximately 150 producing wells located in the Williston Basin in North Dakota at which point we began to receive revenue from associated oil and gas production. Accordingly, there is little operating history upon which to judge our business strategy, our management team or our current operations. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the foreseeable future. Since we entered the oil and gas business in April 2005, through December 31, 2007, we have incurred a net loss from operations of $9,852,162. If we fail to generate profits from our operations, we will not be able to sustain our business. We may never report profitable operations or generate sufficient revenue to maintain our company as a going concern. We do not act as an operator, which means we are dependent on third parties for the exploration, development and production of our leasehold interests. An oil and gas operator is the party that takes primary responsibility for management of the day-to-day exploration, development and production activity relating to an oil and gas prospect. Our business plan is to acquire working interests in oil and gas properties with an industry partner functioning as the operator. To date, we have entered into agreements with various oil and gas operators on a project-by-project basis and we have no long term agreements with any operators that ensure us of their services as we may need them. Our reliance on third party operators for the exploration, development and production of our property interests subjects us to a number of risks, including: · the possibility that our inability to act as an operator may limit our ability to bid on and acquire desirable leasehold interests; · the possibility that quality operators may not be available to us as and when needed; · our inability to control the amount and timing of costs and expenses of exploration, development and production; and · the risk that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we are unable to enter into suitable partnering arrangements with quality operators on a timely basis, we risk suffering a number of adverse consequences, including: · the breach of our obligations under the oil and gas leases by which we hold our prospects and the potential loss of those leasehold interests; · loss of reputation in the oil and gas community; · a general slow down in our operations and decline in revenue; and · decline in market price of our common shares. [17] We have limited management and staff and will be dependent for the foreseeable future upon consultants and partnering arrangements. At of March 2008, we have seven employees, including our five executive officers. We have developed an operating strategy that is based on our participation in producing properties and exploration prospects as a non-operator for the foreseeable future. We intend to use the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including reservoir engineering, land, legal, environmental and tax services. We will also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and prospect leasing. Our dependence on third party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to: · the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed; and · the risk that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations and stock price will be materially adversely affected. The loss of any of our executive officers could adversely affect us. We currently only have seven employees, including our five executive officers. We are dependent on the extensive experience of our executive officers to implement our acquisition and growth strategy. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a negative impact on our operations and our ability to implement our strategy. In addition to acquiring producing properties, we intend to also grow our business through the acquisition and development of exploratory oil and gas prospects, which is the riskiest method of establishing oil and gas reserves. In addition to acquiring producing properties, we intend to acquire, drill and develop exploratory oil and gas prospects that are profitable to produce. Developing exploratory oil and gas properties requires significant capital expenditures and involves a high degree of financial risk. The budgeted costs of drilling, completing, and operating exploratory wells are often exceeded and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise. Drilling may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including title problems, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages, and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling or completion of an exploratory oil or gas well does not ensure a profit on investment. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. We cannot assure you that our exploration, exploitation and development activities will result in profitable operations. If we are unable to successfully acquire and develop exploratory oil and gas prospects, our results of operations, financial condition and stock price will be materially adversely affected. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or result in losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, from time to time we enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our proved developed producing production. While these contracts are intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, they may also limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the contract. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received; · our production and/or sales of oil or natural gas are less than expected; · payments owed under derivative hedging contracts come due prior to receipt of the hedged month’s production revenue; or · the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and natural gas. On the other hand, where we choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in oil and natural gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. [18] Any failure to meet our debt obligations would adversely affect our business and financial condition. In conjunction with our acquisition of the producing properties in North Dakota, PRC Williston LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a $75 million credit agreement on February 16, 2007, of which approximately $14.3 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007. Funds borrowed under the new credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to (x) the greater of the prime rate or 7.5%, plus (y) 2%, with interest payable monthly. The principal amount of advances outstanding under the credit facility are repayable monthly in an amount approximating 100% of PRC Williston’s cash on hand (from any source) less all permitted costs and expenses paid by PRC Williston for the monthly period. PRC Williston’s ability to meet its debt obligations under the credit agreement will depend on the future performance of the North Dakota properties, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. PRC Williston’s failure to service its debt could result in a default under the credit agreement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have guaranteed the performance of PRC Williston’s obligations under the credit facility and have secured our guarantee by granting to the lenders a first priority security interest in our ownership interest in PRC Williston. If PRC Williston’s cash flow is not sufficient to service its debt, we may be required to perform our obligations under the guarantee which could have a negative impact on our ability to fund our other operations and we may be required to refinance the debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we do not find attractive. The credit agreement obligates PRC Williston to comply with certain financial covenants calculated as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, including a minimum current ratio beginning with the quarter ending on June 30, 2007, a minimum interest coverage ratio and debt coverage ratios based on earnings and petroleum reserves, as such ratios are defined in the agreement. Subsequent to June 30, 2007, PRC Williston entered into agreements with the lenders to postpone the calculation of the financial covenants and waive various financial covenants until the quarter ended December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the financial covenants, and if we fail to satisfy or obtain waivers for these covenants, we would be subject to the default provisions of the agreement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made a significant commitment to invest in Hall-Houston Exploration II, L.P., however two of our directors are controlling persons of the partnership and, as a result, our involvement in Hall-Houston Exploration II, L.P. may be subject to material conflicts of interest. Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P. is sponsored and managed by Hall-Houston Exploration Partners, L.L.C. The president and chief financial officer of Hall-Houston Exploration Partners, L.L.C. are Gary L. Hall and Brad Bynum, respectively, both of whom presently serve on our board of directors. In addition, Gary L. Hall is the brother of our chief executive officer, Wayne P. Hall. In the course of their management of Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P., it is likely that Gary Hall and Brad Bynum may be required to make certain decisions and take certain actions that conflict with us or that may otherwise be in the best interest of Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P., but may not be in the best interest of our company. For example, the general partner of Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P. may decide to issue capital calls to the partners of Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P. at times or in amounts that may be inconvenient for our company. It is also possible that there may develop disagreements between us and Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P. over our respective rights and obligations under the limited partnership agreement. In the event of any such conflict or disagreement, Gary Hall and Brad Bynum will have a material conflict of interest between their duties to and interests in our company and their duties to and interests in Hall-Houston Exploration II, L. P. There can be no assurance that any such conflict of interest will be handled or resolved in a manner that does not have a material negative impact upon our rights, interests or opportunities. [19] If we are unable to fund our commitment to Hall-Houston Exploration II, L.P., we may be forced to sell our entire investment in the fund at a significant loss. Pursuant to the limited partnership agreement, we are required to fund our $8.0 million in the partnership based on calls for capital made by the general partner from time to time. The general partner is authorized to issue a call for capital contributions at any time, and from time to time, over a three year period expiring in April 2009. In the event we are unable or unwilling to fund a capital call, the general partner may, among other actions, require us to sell our entire limited partnership interest to the other limited partners or the partnership, at the option of the other limited partners and the partnership, at a price equal to the lower of (i) 75% of the fair market value of our interest and (ii) 75% of our capital account balance in the partnership. As of March 15, 2008, we have funded $3.9 million of our $8.0 million commitment. The general partner is unable to predict the timing and amount of the future calls for capital. If we are unable to fund a capital call when made, we may be forced to sell our entire investment in the partnership at a significant loss, in addition to being held liable for other damages to the partnership resulting from our breach of the partnership agreement. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Significant growth in the size and scope of our operations could place a strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, geologists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plans. Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Thus, our future oil and gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and revenue are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire reserves to replace our current and future production at costs or other terms acceptable to us, or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment supplies or personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans. The oil and gas industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there are shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment and supplies my increase substantially and their availability may be limited. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified personnel, including drilling rig crews, may rise as the number of rigs in service increases. The higher prices of oil and gas during the last several years have resulted in shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, which have resulted in increased costs and shortages of equipment in program areas we operate. If drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel are unavailable to us due to excessive costs or demand or otherwise, our ability to execute our exploration and development plans could be materially and adversely affected and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Covenants in our credit facility impose significant restrictions and requirements on us. Our credit facility contains a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on us, including restrictions on our repurchase of, and payment of dividends on, our capital stock and limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, sell assets and create liens on our assets. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and, in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our credit facility also requires our operating subsidiaries to achieve and maintain certain financial ratio tests. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will be able to achieve and maintain compliance with these prescribed financial ratio tests or other requirements under our credit facility. Failure to achieve or maintain compliance with the financial ratio tests or other requirements under our credit facility would result in a default and could lead to the acceleration of our obligations under our credit facility. A substantial portion of the assets of our operating subsidiaries are pledged to secure the obligations under our credit facility. Our lack of unencumbered collateral could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain, or increase the cost of obtaining, additional financing in the future. [20] Lack of pipeline access, gathering systems and other production equipment may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. For example, there are no gathering systems in some of the program areas where we have acreage. Therefore, if drilling results are positive in these program areas, new gathering systems would need to be built to deliver any gas production to markets. There can be no assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to build such systems or that third parties would build systems that would allow for the economic development of any such production. We deliver our production through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities may not be available to us in the future. Our ability to produce and market our production is affected and also may be harmed by: · the lack of pipeline transmission facilities or carrying capacity; · federal and state regulation of oil and gas production; and · federal and state transportation, tax and energy policies. Any significant change in our arrangement with gathering system or pipeline owners and operators, or other market factors affecting the overall infrastructure facilities servicing our properties, could adversely impact our ability to deliver the oil and gas that we produce to markets in an efficient manner or the prices we receive. In some cases, we may be required to shut in wells, at least temporarily, for lack of a market because of the inadequacy or unavailability of transportation facilities. If that were to occur, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver our production to market. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: · fire, explosions and blowouts; · pipe failure; · abnormally pressured formations; and · environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). These events may result in substantial losses to us from: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution or other environmental damage; · clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation; · penalties and suspension of operations; or · attorney's fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We carry well control insurance for our drilling operations. Our coverage includes blowout protection and liability protection on domestic and international wells. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months. [21] It is our long-term goal to achieve a well diversified and balanced portfolio of oil and natural gas producing properties located onshore North America and offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition to geographic diversification, we also plan to target a balanced reserve mix between oil and natural gas, as well as conventional and unconventional resource plays. Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments and to implement our business strategy. Oil and natural gas are commodities and are subject to wide price fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the following: · changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; · the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; · the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; · acts of war or terrorism; · political conditions and events, including embargoes, affecting oil-producing activity; · the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; · the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; · weather conditions; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · market concerns about global warming or changes in governmental policies and regulations due to climate change initiatives. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Our industry is highly competitive which may adversely affect our performance, including our ability to participate in ready to drill prospects in our core areas. We operate in a highly competitive environment. In addition to capital, the principal resources necessary for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas are: · leasehold prospects under which oil and natural gas reserves may be discovered; · drilling rigs and related equipment to explore for such reserves; and · knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of oil and natural gas operations. We must compete for such resources with both major oil and natural gas companies and independent operators. Virtually all of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We cannot assure you that such materials and resources will be available when needed. If we are unable to access material and resources when needed, we risk suffering a number of adverse consequences, including: · the breach of our obligations under the oil and gas leases by which we hold our prospects and the potential loss of those leasehold interests; · loss of reputation in the oil and gas community; · a general slow down in our operations and decline in revenue; and · decline in market price of our common shares. [22] Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and the calculation of the present value of reserves shown in these reports. In order to prepare reserve estimates in its reports, our independent petroleum consultant projected production rates and timing of development expenditures. Our independent petroleum consultant also analyzed available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary and may not be in our control. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our independent petroleum consultant may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, drilling results, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Prospects that we decide in which to participate may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities or quantities sufficient to meet our targeted rate of return. A prospect is a property in which we own an interest and have what we believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to be drilled to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion cost or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analysis we perform using data from other wells, more fully explored prospects and/or producing fields will be useful in predicting the characteristics and potential reserves associated with our drilling prospects. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, production and sale of oil and natural gas, and operating safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may result in substantial penalties and harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as: [23] · land use restrictions; · lease permit restrictions; · drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plugging and abandonment bonds; · spacing of wells; · unitization and pooling of properties; · safety precautions; · operational reporting; and · taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: · personal injuries; · property and natural resource damages; · well reclamation cost; and · governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. It is also possible that a portion of our oil and gas properties could be subject to eminent domain proceedings or other government takings for which we may not be adequately compensated. See Item 1 “Business—Government Regulations” for a more detailed description of our regulatory risks. Our operations may incur substantial expenses and resulting liabilities from compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: · require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; · restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and · impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: · the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; · incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations; and · the imposition of injuctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Our permits require that we report any incidents that cause or could cause environmental damages. See Item 1 “Business—Government Regulations” for a more detailed description of our environmental risks. [24] Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market for our stock is limited and may not provide investors with either liquidity or a market based valuation of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange market under the symbol “PRC”. As of March 29, 2008, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the AMEX was $1.35 per share. However, we consider our common stock to be “thinly traded” and any last reported sale prices may not be a true market-based valuation of the common stock. Also, the present volume of trading in our common stock may not provide investors sufficient liquidity in the event they wish to sell their common shares. There can be no assurance that an active market for our common stock will develop. In addition, the stock market in general, and early stage public companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. If we are unable to develop a market for our common shares, you may not be able to sell your common shares at prices you consider to be fair or at times that are convenient for you, or at all. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets and the issuance of shares of common stock in future acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or by other parties in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of such shares in the public market could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common or preferred stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in furtherance of our acquisitions and development of assets or businesses. If we use our shares for this purpose, the issuances could have a dilutive effect on the value of your shares, depending on market conditions at the time of an acquisition, the price we pay, the value of the assets or business acquired and our success in exploiting the properties or integrating the businesses we acquire and other factors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 