Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The following risks relate principally to our leverage, our business, our common stock and our separation from Clear Channel Communications. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Associated with Our Leverage We have a large amount of debt, redeemable preferred stock and lease obligations that could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. Our total indebtedness for borrowed money, including our redeemable preferred stock, was approximately $406.8 million at December 31, 2005. Our current available borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit facility is approximately $610.0 million, consisting of our $325.0 million term loan facility, all of which 17 Table of Contents is outstanding, and our $285.0 million revolving credit facility, none of which is outstanding, with sub-limits up to $235.0 million available for letters of credit. At December 31, 2005, outstanding letters of credit were approximately $46.4 million leaving total available credit of $238.6 million for future borrowings. We may also incur additional substantial indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. In addition, our redeemable preferred stock bears an annual dividend rate of 13%, or $5.2 million annually, and is subject to financial and other covenants substantially similar to the covenants applicable to our senior secured credit facility. If we default under any of these covenants, we will have to pay additional dividends. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.0 billion in operating lease agreements, of which approximately $64.3 million is due in 2006 and $60.7 million is due in 2007. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease service obligations. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our obligations and obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, the inability to meet our debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease obligations could cause us to default on those obligations. If we fail to meet any minimum financial requirements contained in instruments governing our debt, we would be in default under such instruments, which, in turn, could result in defaults under other debt instruments. In addition, if we default under any of the covenants applicable to our preferred stock, we will have to pay additional dividends. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources for a discussion of our obligations. To service our debt, lease and preferred stock obligations and to fund potential capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash to meet our needs, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt, lease and preferred stock obligations and to fund potential capital expenditures for venue construction, expansion or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including our senior secured credit facility, will also depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $25.7 million of total indebtedness (excluding interest) is due in 2006, $9.1 million is due in the aggregate for 2007 and 2008, $9.4 million is due in the aggregate for 2009 and 2010, and $362.6 million is due thereafter. See the table in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments — Firm Commitments. If our future cash flow from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business 18 Table of Contents activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may be limited on assets we can sell under the terms of the tax matters agreement with Clear Channel Communications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing debt, including our senior secured credit facility, other future debt and our preferred stock may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our senior secured credit facility and preferred stock designations may restrict our ability to finance operations and capital needs and our operating flexibility. Our senior secured credit facility and preferred stock designations include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments; • repurchase our stock and prepay certain indebtedness; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • modify the nature of our business; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • transfer and sell material assets; and • merge or consolidate. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and preferred stock designations include additional restrictions, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. If we default under any of the covenants applicable to our preferred stock, the holder of our preferred stock may be entitled to elect a director of one of our subsidiaries, and we will have to pay additional dividends. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our live entertainment business is highly sensitive to public tastes and dependent on our ability to secure popular artists and other live entertainment events, and we may be unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our services. Our ability to generate revenues from our entertainment operations is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes and dependent on the availability of popular artists and events. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes of consumers and to offer events that appeal to them. Since we rely on unrelated parties to create and perform live entertainment content, any unwillingness to tour or lack of availability of popular artists, touring theatrical performances, specialized motor sports talent and other performers could limit our ability to generate revenues. In addition, we typically book our live music tours one to four months in advance of the beginning of the tour and often agree to pay an artist a fixed guaranteed amount prior to our receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not receptive to the tour or we or a performer cancel the tour, we may incur a loss for the tour depending on the amount of the fixed guarantee or incurred costs relative to any revenues earned, as well as foregone revenue we could have earned at booked venues. Furthermore, consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our services, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. 19 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses and may experience future net losses. Our operating results have been adversely affected by, among other things, a global economic slowdown, increased cost of entertainers and a decline in the number of live entertainment events. We incurred a net loss of approximately $130.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and generated net income of approximately $16.3 million and $57.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We may face reduced demand for our live entertainment events and other factors that could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. We cannot predict whether we will achieve profitability in future periods. Our operations are seasonal and our results of operations vary from quarter to quarter, so our financial performance in certain financial quarters may not be indicative of or comparable to our financial performance in subsequent financial quarters. We believe our financial results and cash needs will vary greatly from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, the timing of tours and theatrical productions, tour cancellations, capital expenditures, seasonal and other fluctuations in our operating results, the timing of guaranteed payments and receipt of ticket sales, financing activities, acquisitions and investments and receivables management. Because our results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our financial results for one quarter cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter and may not be indicative of our future financial performance in subsequent quarters. Typically, our global music segment experiences its lowest financial performance in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year as our outdoor venues are primarily used during May through September. Our global theater segment experiences its strongest demand in the first, second and fourth quarters of the calendar year as the theatrical touring season runs during September through April. In addition, the timing of tours of top grossing acts can impact comparability of quarterly results year over year, although annual results may not be impacted. The following table sets forth our operating income (loss) for the last eight fiscal quarters (in thousands): Operating Fiscal Quarter Income (Loss) March 31, 2004 $ 293 June 30, 2004 $ 8,056 September 30, 2004 $ 70,869 December 31, 2004 $ (20,235 ) March 31, 2005 $ (27,526 ) June 30, 2005 $ 15,258 September 30, 2005 $ 61,868 December 31, 2005 $ (62,783 ) We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions, which could affect consumer and corporate spending and, therefore, significantly adversely impact our operating results. A decline in attendance at or reduction in the number of live entertainment events has had an adverse effect on our revenues and operating income. In addition, during the most recent economic slowdown in the United States, many consumers reduced their discretionary spending and advertisers reduced their advertising expenditures. The impact of slowdowns on our business is difficult to predict, but they may result in reductions in ticket sales, sponsorship opportunities and our ability to generate revenues. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in attendance at live entertainment events. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. Many factors related to corporate spending and discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, fuel prices, interest and tax rates and inflation can significantly impact our operating results. Business conditions, as well as various industry conditions, including corporate 20 Table of Contents marketing and promotional spending and interest levels, can also significantly impact our operating results. These factors can affect attendance at our events, premium seats, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales, as well as the financial results of sponsors of our venues, events and the industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, public concerns over additional terrorism and security incidents, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and consumer spending, and one negative factor can impact our results more than another. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be adversely impacted by economic conditions, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. Our business is dependent upon our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of these officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations, due to their associations and contacts with performers and other key industry agents, venue managers and sponsors. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key executive officers and other personnel to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their associations with key business contacts. Doing business in foreign countries creates certain risks not found in doing business in the United States. Doing business in foreign countries involves certain risks that may not exist when doing business in the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our international operations accounted for approximately 31% and 28%, respectively, of our revenues during those periods. The risks involved in foreign operations that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • hostility from local populations; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; • investment restrictions or requirements; • expropriations of property; • potential instability of foreign governments; • risks of insurrections; • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; • foreign exchange restrictions; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and • changes in foreign taxation structures. In addition, we may incur substantial tax liabilities if we repatriate any of the cash generated by our international operations back to the United States due to our current inability to recognize any foreign tax credits that would be associated with such repatriation. We are not currently in a position to recognize any tax assets in the United States that are the result of payments of income or withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. 21 Table of Contents Exchange rates may cause fluctuations in our results of operations that are not related to our operations. Because we own assets overseas and derive revenues from our international operations, we may incur currency translation losses or gains due to changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the United States Dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our international operations accounted for approximately 31% and 28%, respectively, of our revenues during those periods. In addition, our international operations have accounted for approximately 63% of our operating income in prior years. Although we cannot predict the future relationship between the United States Dollar and the currencies used by our international businesses, principally the British Pound and the Euro, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we experienced a foreign exchange rate net loss of $1.3 million which had a negative effect on our operating income, while for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we experienced foreign exchange rate net gains of $6.3 million and $7.6 million, respectively, for those periods, which had a positive effect on our operating income. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our compliance with antitrust, competition and other regulations may limit our operations and future acquisitions. Our future growth rate depends in part on our selective acquisition of additional businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite government approvals. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, technologies and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions that we may pursue could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. We are also subject to laws and regulations, including those relating to antitrust, that could significantly affect our ability to expand our business through acquisitions. For example, the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice with respect to our domestic acquisitions, and the European Commission, the antitrust regulator of the European Union, with respect to our European acquisitions, have the authority to challenge our acquisitions on antitrust grounds before or after the acquisitions are completed. State agencies may also have standing to challenge these acquisitions under state or federal antitrust law. Comparable authorities in foreign countries also have the ability to challenge our foreign acquisitions. Our failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, regulatory actions or legal proceedings against us, the imposition of fines, penalties or judgments against us or significant limitations on our activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. New or revised requirements imposed by governmental regulatory authorities could have adverse effects on us, including increased costs of compliance. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by these governmental authorities. In addition, restrictions contained in the tax matters agreement between us and Clear Channel and the credit agreement for the senior secured credit facility restrict our ability to make acquisitions. 22 Table of Contents There is the risk of personal injuries and accidents in connection with our live entertainment events, which could subject us to personal injury or other claims and increase our expenses, as well as reduce attendance at our live entertainment events, causing a decrease in our revenues. There are inherent risks involved with producing live entertainment events. As a result, personal injuries and accidents have, and may, occur from time to time, which could subject us to claims and liabilities for personal injuries. Incidents in connection with our live entertainment events at any of our venues or venues that we rent could also result in claims, reducing operating income or reducing attendance at our events, causing a decrease in our revenues. We are currently subject to wrongful death claims, as well as other litigation. While we maintain insurance polices that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss for personal injuries sustained by persons at our venues or accidents in the ordinary course of business, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. Costs associated with, and our ability to, obtain adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty, liability, business interruption and other insurance coverage have resulted from the terrorist and related security incidents on and after September 11, 2001 in the United States, as well as the more recent terrorist attacks in Madrid and London. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty obtaining high policy limits of coverage at reasonable costs, including coverage for acts of terrorism. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our venues, which are generally located near highly populated cities and which hold events typically attended by large numbers of fans. At December 31, 2005, we had property and equipment with a net book value of approximately $808.9 million. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits with deductibles that we believe to be reasonable. We cannot assure you that future increases in insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. We cannot guarantee that our insurance policy coverage limits, including insurance coverage for property, casualty, liability and business interruption losses and acts of terrorism, would be adequate under the circumstances should one or multiple events occur at or near any of our venues, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. We cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our venues could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability were to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer were unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Growth or maintenance of our existing revenues depends in part on consistent investment in our venues. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our venues to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase entertainment value and to increase revenues. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects under way. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our venues, including: • availability of financing on favorable terms; • unforeseen changes in design; • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor; • additional land acquisition costs; 23 Table of Contents • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site; • national or regional economic changes; • environmental or hazardous conditions; and • undetected soil or land conditions. The amount of capital expenditures can vary significantly from year to year. In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if the factors listed above and our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Construction is also subject to governmental permitting processes which, if changed, could materially affect the ultimate cost. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our live entertainment venue operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, both domestically and internationally, governing matters such as construction, renovation and operation of our venues as well as: • licensing and permitting; • human health, safety and sanitation requirements; • the service of food and alcoholic beverages; • working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship and employment laws; • compliance with The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the United Kingdom’s Disability Discrimination Act 1995; • sales and other taxes and withholding of taxes; • historic landmark rules; and • environmental protection. While we believe that our venues are in material compliance with these laws, we cannot predict the extent to which any future laws or regulations will impact our operations. The regulations relating to our food and support service in our venues are many and complex. Although we generally contract with a third-party vendor for these services at our operated venues, we cannot assure you that we or our third-party vendors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times or that we or our third-party vendors will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations or that we will not be held liable for violations by third-party vendors. Furthermore, additional or amended regulations in this area may significantly increase the cost of compliance. We also serve alcoholic beverages at many of our venues during live entertainment events and must comply with applicable licensing laws, as well as state and local service laws, commonly called dram shop statutes. Dram shop statutes generally prohibit serving alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as an individual who is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram shop laws, we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. Although we generally hire outside vendors to provide these services at our operated venues and regularly sponsor training programs designed to minimize the likelihood of such a situation, we cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor patrons will not be served or that liability for their acts will not be imposed on us. There can be no assurance that additional regulation in this area would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We must also obtain and comply with the terms of licenses in order to sell alcoholic beverages in the states in which we serve alcoholic beverages. From time to time, state and federal governmental bodies have proposed legislation that could have an effect on our business. For example, some legislatures have proposed laws in the past that would impose 24 Table of Contents potential liability on us and other promoters and producers of live entertainment events for entertainment taxes and for incidents that occur at our events, particularly relating to drugs and alcohol. In addition, we and our venues are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which may affect, among other things, the hours of operations of our venues. We face intense competition in the live entertainment industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenues, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our business segments are in highly competitive industries, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current live entertainment revenues. We compete in the global music and global theater industries, and within such industries we compete with other venues to book performers, and, in the markets in which we promote musical concerts, we face competition from other promoters, as well as from certain performers who promote their own concerts. Our competitors also compete with us for key employees who have relationships with popular music artists that have a history of being able to book such artists for concerts and tours. These competitors may engage in more extensive development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential artists. Our competitors may develop services, advertising options or entertainment venues that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Other variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, event attendance, ticket prices or profit margins include: • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower sponsorships as we attempt to retain advertisers or which may cause us to lose advertisers to our competitors offering better programs that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, including increased guarantees to performers, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; • our competitors may offer more favorable terms than we do in order to obtain agreements for new venues; • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive entertainment alternatives than what we currently offer, which may lead to reduction in attendance at live events, a loss of ticket sales or to lower ticket prices; • other entertainment options available to our audiences that we do not offer; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which may cause us to lose audiences as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence, or which may cause sponsors to be unwilling to pay for sponsorship and advertising opportunities if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective. We believe that barriers to entry into the live entertainment promotion business are low and that certain local promoters are increasingly expanding the geographic scope of their operations. We depend upon unionized labor for the provision of some of our services and any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt our business. The stagehands at some of our venues, and the actors, musicians and others involved in some of our business operations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our union agreements typically have a term of three years and thus regularly expire and require negotiation in the course of our business. Upon the expiration of any of our collective bargaining agreements, however, we may be unable to negotiate new 25 Table of Contents collective bargaining agreements on terms favorable to us, and our business operations may be interrupted as a result of labor disputes or difficulties and delays in the process of renegotiating our collective bargaining agreements. A work stoppage at one or more of our owned or operated venues or at our produced or presented events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict the effect that new collective bargaining agreements will have on our expenses or that caps on agents’ fees will have on the revenues and operating income of our sports representation business. We are dependent upon our ability to lease, acquire and develop live entertainment venues, and if we are unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We require access to venues to generate revenues from live entertainment events. For these events, we use venues that we own, but we also operate a number of our live entertainment venues under various agreements which include leases with third-parties or equity or booking agreements, which are agreements where we contract to book the events at a venue for a specific period of time. Our long-term success in the live entertainment business will depend in part on the availability of venues, our ability to lease these venues and our ability to enter into booking agreements upon their expiration. As many of these agreements are with third parties over whom we have little or no control, we may be unable to renew these agreements or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms or at all, and may be unable to obtain favorable agreements with venues. Our ability to renew these agreements or obtain new agreements on favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as national and local business conditions and competition from other promoters. If the cost of renewing these agreements is too high or the terms of any new agreement with a new venue are unacceptable or incompatible with our existing operations, we may decide to forego these opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain attractive agreements with substitute venues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our operations through the development of live entertainment venues and the expansion of existing live entertainment venues, which poses a number of risks, including: • construction of live entertainment venues may result in cost overruns, delays or unanticipated expenses; • desirable sites for live entertainment venues may be unavailable or costly; and • the attractiveness of our venue locations may deteriorate over time. Additionally, the market potential of live entertainment venues sites cannot be precisely determined, and our live entertainment venues may face competition in markets from unexpected sources. Newly constructed live entertainment venues may not perform up to our expectations. We face significant competition for potential live entertainment venue locations and for opportunities to acquire existing live entertainment venues. Because of this competition, we may be unable to add to the number of our live entertainment venues on terms we consider acceptable. Our revenues depend in part on the promotional success of our marketing campaigns, and there can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenues or profits. Similar to many companies, we spend significant amounts on advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns for our live entertainment events and other business activities. Such marketing activities include, among others, promotion of ticket sales, premium seat sales, hospitality and other services for our events and venues and advertising associated with our distribution of related souvenir merchandise and apparel. In the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we spent approximately 6.1% and 6.9%, respectively, of our revenues on marketing, including advertising, and there can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenues or profits. 26 Table of Contents Poor weather adversely affects attendance at our live entertainment events, which could negatively impact our financial performance from period to period. We promote many live entertainment events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, among other things. Poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations particularly because we promote a finite number of events. Due to weather conditions, we may be required to reschedule an event to the next available day or a different venue, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact the attendance at the event as well as, food, beverage and merchandise sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods. If we are unable to reschedule events due to poor weather, we are forced to refund the tickets for those events. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly affect our results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, require changes in our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices, and require a review of our internal control procedures. We expect these developments to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. In addition, they could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, or qualified executive officers. Finally, director and officer liability insurance for public companies like us has become more difficult and more expensive to obtain, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur higher costs to obtain coverage that is satisfactory to us and our officers or directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring regulatory developments and cannot estimate the timing or magnitude or additional costs we may incur as a result. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures; our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on management’s assessment of those matters. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be tested in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal control, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks. The occurrence and threat of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, intentional or unintentional mass-casualty incidents, natural disasters or similar events, may substantially decrease the use of and demand for our services and the attendance at live entertainment events, which may decrease our revenues or expose us to substantial liability. The terrorism and security incidents of September 11, 2001, military actions in Iraq, and periodic elevated terrorism alerts have raised numerous challenging operating factors, including public concerns regarding air travel, military actions and additional national or local catastrophic incidents, causing a nationwide disruption of commercial and leisure activities. 27 Table of Contents Following September 11, 2001, some artists refused to travel or book tours, which adversely affected our music business, and many people did not travel to New York City, which caused us to experience lower attendance levels at our theatrical performances playing on Broadway in New York City and adversely affected our theatrical business. The occurrence of the 2005 terrorist attacks in London, England, also caused us to experience lower attendance levels at our theatrical performances playing on the West End in London. The occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks, natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe floods or similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to negatively affect the economies of the United States and other foreign countries where we do business generally, specifically the market for live entertainment. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to the seasonality of our business and other factors related to our business; • our loss or inability to obtain significant popular artists or theatrical productions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; and • general economic conditions. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these Risk Factors could have a significant and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of the value of your common stock. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, 28 Table of Contents it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our corporate governance documents, rights agreement and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that shareholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to remove directors and supermajority voting requirements for shareholders to amend our organizational documents, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our shareholders by written consent. Three of our nine directors are directors of Clear Channel Communications. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law, for instance, also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. Although we believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any written agreement to the contrary, which agreement does not currently exist, Clear Channel Communications will have no duty to refrain from engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or doing business with any of our customers or vendors or employing or otherwise engaging or soliciting any of our officers, directors or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if Clear Channel Communications acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both us and Clear Channel Communications, we will generally renounce our interest in the corporate opportunity. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy in such corporate opportunity that will belong to Clear Channel Communications. Clear Channel Communications will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, have satisfied its fiduciary duty with respect to such a corporate opportunity and will not be liable to us or our shareholders for breach of any fiduciary duty as our shareholder by reason of the fact that it acquires or seeks the corporate opportunity for itself, directs that corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that corporate opportunity to us. These provisions could make an acquisition of us less advantageous to a third-party. Our obligation to indemnify, under certain circumstances, Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates pursuant to the tax matters agreement against tax-related liabilities, if any, caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) could deter a change of control of us. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring, 15% or more of our common stock, and in the case of certain Schedule 13G filers, 20% or more of our common stock, without approval of our Board of Directors under specified circumstances, our other shareholders have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. Therefore, the plan makes an acquisition much more costly to a potential acquirer. In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facility provide that the lenders can require us to repay all outstanding indebtedness upon a change of control, and the preferred stock requires one of our subsidiaries to offer to repurchase the preferred stock at 101% of the liquidation preference upon a change of control. These provisions make an acquisition more costly to a potential acquirer. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Redeemable Preferred Stock. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Separation from Clear Channel Communications The cost of certain corporate functions necessary to operate as an independent company, previously provided by Clear Channel Communications, may increase. Prior to the Separation, our business was operated by Clear Channel Communications as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Our historical consolidated and combined financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Clear Channel Communications. Those allocations may be less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly-traded company. Clear Channel Communications performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to: • selected human resources related functions; • tax administration; • selected legal functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), as well as external reporting; • treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and • selected information technology and telecommunications services. As we implement these functions, the costs may be higher than previous years’ allocations or current estimates and our losses may increase. As a result of the Separation, neither Clear Channel Communications nor any of its affiliates has any obligation to provide these functions to us other than those services that Clear Channel Communications provides pursuant to the transition services agreement. See Item 13. Certain Transactions and Related Party Transactions — Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications — Transition Services Agreement. If, once our transition services agreement terminates, we do not have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost effectively, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our losses may increase. If Clear Channel Communications does not continue to perform effectively the services that are required under the transition services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. We have a short operating history as a separate publicly-traded company and our historical combined and consolidated financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. On December 21, 2005, we were spun-off from Clear Channel Communications, and, therefore, we have minimal operating history as a separate publicly-traded company. The historical consolidated and combined financial information included in this Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a separate publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Prior to the Separation, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Clear Channel Communications. As a result of our separation, Clear Channel Communications is no longer providing us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Clear Channel Communications, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We currently have a credit rating of B1 by Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. and B+ by Standards & Poor’s Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., that is lower than Clear Channel Communications’ credit rating and, as a result, we will incur debt on terms and at interest rates that will not be as favorable as those generally enjoyed by Clear Channel Communications. 30 Table of Contents • Prior to our separation from Clear Channel Communications, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Clear Channel Communications. We shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. While we have entered into short-term transition agreements that will govern certain commercial and other relationships with Clear Channel Communications after the Separation, those temporary arrangements may not capture the benefits our businesses enjoyed as a result of common ownership prior to the Separation. The loss of these benefits as a consequence of the Separation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Clear Channel Communications. These changes will result in increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, stand-alone costs for services previously provided by Clear Channel Communications, the need for additional personnel to perform services previously provided by Clear Channel Communications and the legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with equity securities listed on a national stock exchange. We continue to use on a temporary basis certain services of Clear Channel Communications under the transition services agreements and we may not be able to adequately replace the services that Clear Channel Communications provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms. The Separation could result in significant tax liability to our initial public shareholders. Clear Channel Communications received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service substantially to the effect that the distribution of our common stock to its shareholders qualifies as a tax-free distribution for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. Although a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the ruling is based upon representations by Clear Channel Communications that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, Clear Channel Communications made it a condition to the Separation that Clear Channel Communications obtain an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP that the Distribution will qualify as a tax-free distribution for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The opinion relies on the ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. In addition, the opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Clear Channel Communications and us, which if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. Notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel Communications of the ruling and opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in taking this position, our initial public shareholders could be subject to significant United States federal income tax liability. In general, our initial public shareholders could be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. The Separation could result in significant tax-related liabilities to us. As discussed above, notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel Communications of the ruling and the opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in taking this position, Clear Channel Communications could be subject to significant United States federal 31 Table of Contents income tax liability. In general, Clear Channel Communications would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, even if the Distribution otherwise were to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to Clear Channel Communications as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value under Section 355(e) of the Code, if the Distribution were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Clear Channel Communications or us. For this purpose, any acquisitions of Clear Channel Communications stock or of our stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Clear Channel Communications may be able to rebut that presumption. Although such corporate-level taxes, if any, resulting from a taxable distribution generally would be imposed on Clear Channel Communications, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications and its affiliates against tax-related liabilities, if any, caused by the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) if the failure to so qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the tax matters agreement. If the failure of the Separation to qualify under Section 355 of the Code is for any reason for which neither we nor Clear Channel Communications is responsible, we and Clear Channel Communications have agreed in the tax matters agreement that we will each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure to so qualify. Clear Channel Communications reported a $2.4 billion capital loss as a result of the Separation. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions — Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications — Tax Matters Agreement for a more detailed discussion of the tax matters agreement between Clear Channel Communications and us. We could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel Communications. Each member of the Clear Channel Communications consolidated group, which includes Clear Channel Communications, our company and our subsidiaries through December 21, 2005, and Clear Channel Communications’ other subsidiaries, is jointly and severally liable for the United States federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Consequently, we could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Clear Channel Communications consolidated group. Disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the Internal Revenue Service in amounts that we cannot quantify. In addition, Clear Channel Communications has recognized a capital loss for United States federal income tax purposes in connection with the Separation. If Clear Channel Communications is unable to deduct such capital loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of any action we take following the Separation or our breach of a relevant representation or covenant made by us in the tax matters agreement, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to indemnify Clear Channel Communications for the lost tax benefits that Clear Channel Communications would have otherwise realized if it were able to deduct this loss. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions — Our Relationship with Clear Channel Communications — Tax Matters Agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 