ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The following risks relate principally to our leverage, our convertible notes, our business, our common stock, our separation from Clear Channel and our merger with Ticketmaster. In addition to the following risks, you should consider other risks specific to Ticketmaster’s business that will also affect our company. These risks are described in Item 1A of Ticketmaster’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which Ticketmaster will file with the SEC, and under the headings “Risks Related to the Combined Company if the Merger is Completed,” “Risks Relating to the Ticketmaster Entertainment Spin-Off” and “Risks Relating to Ticketmaster Entertainment’s Business (and, Following the Completion of the Merger, the Combined Company)” in our Registration Statement on Form S-4 declared effective on November 6, 2009, which we have filed with the SEC and is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Associated with Our Leverage We have a large amount of debt, redeemable preferred stock and lease obligations that could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, Live Nation’s total indebtedness for borrowed money, including its redeemable preferred stock and excluding the debt discount on the convertible notes, was approximately $832.9 million. Live Nation’s available borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of its senior secured credit facility at that date was approximately $141.4 million, with sub-limits up to $235.0 million available for letters of credit. At December 31, 2009, outstanding letters of credit were approximately $42.3 million. As of December 31, 2009, Ticketmaster’s total indebtedness for borrowed money was approximately $812.0 million. Ticketmaster’s available borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of its senior secured credit facility at that date was approximately $115.0 million, with sub-limits up to $20.0 million available for letters of credit. At December 31, 2009, outstanding letters of credit were approximately $1.0 million. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, mergers and other purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to fund payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations and other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • having a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in the instruments governing our debt and redeemable preferred stock. To service our debt, redeemable preferred stock and lease obligations and to fund potential acquisitions, artist advances and capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $41.0 million of Live Nation’s total indebtedness (excluding interest) is due in 2010, $198.7 million is due in the aggregate for 2011 and 2012, $579.9 million is due in the aggregate for 2013 and 2014 and $13.3 million is due thereafter. See the table in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations and Commitments—Firm Commitments. As of December 31, 2009, no portion of Ticketmaster’s total indebtedness (excluding interest) is due in 2010, $31.8 million is due in the aggregate for 2011 and 2012, $493.2 million is due in the aggregate for 2013 and 2014 and $287.0 million is due thereafter. 19 Table of Contents Live Nation’s redeemable preferred stock bears an annual dividend rate of 13%, or $5.2 million annually, and is subject to financial and other covenants substantially similar to the covenants applicable to its senior secured credit facility. If Live Nation exceeds certain of these covenants, it will have to pay additional dividends. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, Live Nation had approximately $1.4 billion in operating lease agreements, of which approximately $81.9 million is due in 2010 and $81.8 million is due in 2011. As of December 31, 2009, Ticketmaster had approximately $99.0 million in operating lease agreements, of which approximately $26.6 million is due in 2010 and $19.2 million is due in 2011. Our ability to service our debt, redeemable preferred stock and lease obligations and to fund potential acquisitions, artist advances and capital expenditures for venue construction, expansion or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will also depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We cannot predict the impact to our ability to access additional capital in light of the current uncertainty in the credit market. If our future cash flow from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. In addition, the terms of our existing debt, including our senior secured credit facility, other future debt and our redeemable preferred stock may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. These measures might also be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease service obligations. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our obligations and obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, the inability to meet our debt, redeemable preferred stock or lease obligations could cause us to default on those obligations. Any such defaults could materially harm our financial condition and liquidity. The agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities, our redeemable preferred stock designations and certain of our other indebtedness impose restrictions on us that limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations under our debt. The agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities, our redeemable preferred stock designations and certain of our other indebtedness include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock; • pay dividends and make distributions; • make certain investments; • repurchase our stock and prepay certain indebtedness; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • modify the nature of our business; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • transfer and sell material assets; and • merge or consolidate. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities and redeemable preferred stock designations include other restrictions, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of the governing documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. If we default under any of the covenants applicable to our redeemable preferred stock, the holders of our redeemable preferred stock may be entitled to elect a director of one of our subsidiaries, and we will have to pay additional dividends. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise to conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under our debt. If there were an event of default under our outstanding indebtedness and the obligations thereunder accelerated, our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt and we could be forced into bankruptcy. 20 Table of Contents We will depend on the cash flows of our subsidiaries in order to satisfy our obligations. We will rely on distributions and loans from our subsidiaries in order to meet our payment requirements under our obligations. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to us, we may not be able to make debt service payments on our obligations. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our operating cash flows and consequently our ability to service our debt is therefore principally dependent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and their distributions of those earnings to us and may also be dependent upon loans or other payments of funds to us by those subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and may have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amount due pursuant to our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to provide funds to us may be subject to restrictions under our senior secured credit facilities and the outstanding redeemable preferred stock of our subsidiary and may be subject to the terms of such subsidiaries’ future indebtedness, as well as the availability of sufficient surplus funds under applicable law. Any inability to fund the significant up-front cash requirements associated with our touring business could result in the loss of key tours. In order to secure a tour, including global tours by major artists, we are often required to post a letter of credit or advance cash to the artist prior to the sale of any tickets for that tour. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand or capacity under our revolving credit facility to advance the necessary cash or post the required letter of credit, for any given tour we would not be able to promote that tour and our touring business would be negatively impacted. Risks Relating to our 2.875% Convertible Senior Notes We may not have the funds necessary to finance the repurchase of the notes or to pay the cash payable upon a conversion (if we make the net share settlement election), or we may otherwise be restricted from making such payments, which may increase note holders’ credit risk. In July 2007, we issued $220 million of 2.875% convertible senior notes due 2027 in a private placement in the United States to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On July 15, 2014, July 15, 2017 and July 15, 2022, or in the event of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes), holders may require us to repurchase their notes at a price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest and additional amounts, to the repurchase date. In addition, at any time on or prior to June 15, 2027, we may irrevocably elect net share settlement of the notes, and thereafter we will be required to make a cash payment of up to $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of notes converted. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds available at such time to make the required repurchase or settlement of converted notes. In addition, some of our existing financing agreements contain, and any future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness could contain, provisions prohibiting the repurchase of the notes under certain circumstances, or could provide that a fundamental change constitutes an event of default under that agreement, restrict our ability to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes or restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make funds available to us for that purpose. If any agreement governing our indebtedness prohibits or otherwise restricts us from repurchasing the notes or making the cash payment upon conversion when we become obligated to do so, we could seek the consent of the lenders to repurchase the notes or settle the conversion or attempt to refinance the other debt. If we do not obtain such consent or refinance the debt, we would not be permitted to repurchase the notes or settle the conversion without potentially causing a default under the other debt. Our failure to repurchase tendered notes or to pay any cash payable on a conversion would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which might constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. The additional shares of common stock payable on any notes converted in connection with specified corporate transactions may not adequately compensate holders of notes for any loss they may experience as a result of such specified corporate transactions. If certain specified corporate transactions occur on or prior to July 15, 2014, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate on notes converted in connection with the specified corporate transaction by a number of additional shares of common stock. The number of additional shares of common stock will be determined based on the date on which the specified corporate transaction becomes effective and the price paid per share of our common stock in the specified corporate transaction. The additional shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes in connection with a specified corporate transaction may not adequately compensate holders of notes for any loss they may experience as a result of such specified corporate transaction. Furthermore, holders of notes will not receive the additional consideration payable as a result of the increase in the conversion rate until the effective date of the specified corporate transaction or later, which could be a significant period of time after holders of notes have tendered their notes for conversion. If the specified corporate transaction occurs after July 15, 2014, or if the price paid per share of our common stock in the specified corporate transaction is less than the common stock price at the date of issuance of the notes or above a specified price, there will be no 21 Table of Contents increase in the conversion rate. In addition, in certain circumstances upon a change of control arising from our acquisition by a public company, we may elect to adjust the conversion rate and, if we so elect, holders of notes will not be entitled to the increase in the conversion rate determined as described above. The conditional conversion feature of the notes could result in holders of notes receiving less than the value of the common stock for which a note would otherwise be convertible. Prior to July 15, 2027, the notes are convertible for shares of our common stock (or cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock) only if specified conditions are met. If the specific conditions for conversion are not met, holders of notes will not be able to convert their notes, and they may not be able to receive the value of the common stock or cash and common stock, as applicable, for which the notes would otherwise be convertible. Upon conversion of the notes, holders of notes may receive less proceeds than expected because the value of our common stock may decline after the exercise of the conversion right. If we elect to settle conversions other than solely in shares of common stock, including by making a net share settlement election, the conversion value that holders of notes will receive upon conversion of their notes are in part determined, subject to certain exceptions, by the average of the last reported sale prices of our common stock for the 20 trading days beginning on the second trading day immediately following the day the notes are tendered for conversion, or, if tendered within the 20 days leading up to the maturity date or a specified redemption date, beginning on the fifth day following the maturity date or the redemption date. Accordingly, if the price of our common stock decreases after holders of notes tender their notes for conversion, the conversion value they will receive may be adversely affected. The conversion rate of the notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events. The conversion rate of the notes is subject to adjustment only for certain specified events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of stock dividends on our common stock, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers. However, the conversion rate will not be adjusted for other events, such as an issuance of common stock for cash or acquisition, that may adversely affect the trading price of the notes or the common stock, or for a third-party tender offer. For example, the conversion rate was not adjusted as a result of our merger with Ticketmaster. Risks Relating to Our Business Our live music business is highly sensitive to public tastes and dependent on our ability to secure popular artists and other live music events, and we may be unable to anticipate or respond to changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our services. Our ability to generate revenue from our music operations is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes and dependent on the availability of popular artists and events. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes of consumers and to offer events that appeal to them. Since we rely on unrelated parties to create and perform live music content, any unwillingness to tour or lack of availability of popular artists could limit our ability to generate revenue. In particular, there are a limited number of artists that can headline a major North American or global tour or who can sell out larger venues, including many of our amphitheaters. If those key artists do not continue to tour, or if we are unable to secure the rights to their future tours, then our business would be adversely affected. In addition, we typically book our live music tours one to four months in advance of the beginning of the tour and often agree to pay an artist a fixed guaranteed amount prior to our receiving any operating income. Therefore, if the public is not receptive to the tour, or we or a performer cancel the tour, we may incur a loss for the tour depending on the amount of the fixed guarantee or incurred costs relative to any revenue earned, as well as foregone revenue we could have earned at booked venues. We have cancellation insurance policies in place to cover a portion of our losses if a performer cancels a tour but it may not be sufficient and is subject to deductibles. Furthermore, consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our services, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability. We have incurred net losses and may experience future net losses. Our operating results from continuing operations have been adversely affected by, among other things, event profitability and overhead costs. Live Nation incurred net losses of approximately $126.0 million, $333.5 million and $62.3 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may face reduced demand for our live music events and other factors that could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. We cannot predict whether we will achieve profitability in future periods. 22 Table of Contents Our operations are seasonal and our results of operations vary from quarter to quarter and year over year, so our financial performance in certain financial quarters or years may not be indicative of, or comparable to, our financial performance in subsequent financial quarters or years. We believe our financial results and cash needs will vary greatly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on, among other things, the timing of tours, tour cancellations, capital expenditures, seasonal and other fluctuations in our operating results, the timing of guaranteed payments and receipt of ticket sales, financing activities, acquisitions and investments and receivables management. Because our results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, our financial results for one quarter or year cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter or year and may not be indicative of our future financial performance in subsequent quarters or years. Typically, we experience our lowest financial performance in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year as our outdoor venues are primarily used, and our festivals primarily occur, during May through September. In addition, the timing of tours of top grossing acts can impact comparability of quarterly results year over year and potentially annual results. The following table sets forth Live Nation’s operating income (loss) for the last eight fiscal quarters: Fiscal Quarter Ended Operatingincome (loss) (in thousands) March 31, 2008 $ (74,770 ) June 30, 2008 $ 26,531 September 30, 2008 $ 74,377 December 31, 2008 $ (323,431 ) March 31, 2009 $ (88,259 ) June 30, 2009 $ (8,135 ) September 30, 2009 $ 108,399 December 31, 2009 $ (64,361 ) We may be adversely affected by the current, or any future, general deterioration in economic conditions, which could affect consumer and corporate spending and, therefore, significantly adversely impact our operating results. A decline in attendance at or reduction in the number of live music events may have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating income. In addition, during past economic slowdowns and recessions, many consumers reduced their discretionary spending and advertisers reduced their advertising expenditures. The impact of slowdowns on our business is difficult to predict, but they may result in reductions in ticket sales, sponsorship opportunities and our ability to generate revenue. The risks associated with our businesses may become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in attendance at live music events. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. Many factors related to corporate spending and discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, fuel prices, interest and tax rates and inflation which can significantly impact our operating results. Business conditions, as well as various industry conditions, including corporate marketing and promotional spending and interest levels, can also significantly impact our operating results. These factors can affect attendance at our events, premium seat sales, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales, as well as the financial results of sponsors of our venues, events and the industry. Negative factors such as challenging economic conditions, public concerns over terrorism and security incidents, particularly when combined, can impact corporate and consumer spending, and one negative factor can impact our results more than another. There can be no assurance that consumer and corporate spending will not be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, or by any further or future deterioration in economic conditions, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. Loss of our key promoters, management and other personnel could result in the loss of key tours and negatively impact our business. The live music business is uniquely dependent upon personal relationships, as promoters and executives within the live music companies such as ours leverage their existing network of relationships with artists, agents and managers in order to secure the rights to the live music tours and events which are critical to our success. Due to the importance of those industry contacts to our business, the loss of any of our promoters, officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with many of those individuals to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their associations with key business contacts. 23 Table of Contents Doing business in foreign countries creates risks not found in doing business in the United States. Live Nation’s international operations accounted for approximately 35% of its revenue in 2009. Ticketmaster’s international operations accounted for approximately 27% of its revenue in 2009. The risks involved in foreign operations that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • investment restrictions or requirements on businesses owned by foreigners; • expropriations of property; • potential instability of foreign governments; • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; • foreign exchange restrictions; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and • changes in foreign taxation structures. In addition, we may incur substantial tax liabilities if we repatriate any of the cash generated by our international operations back to the United States due to significant current limitations on our ability to recognize foreign tax credits that would be associated with such repatriation. We could repatriate some of the cash generated by our international operations and use certain of our substantial net operating losses to offset associated tax liabilities. We are not currently in a position to recognize any tax assets in the United States that are the result of payments of income or withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Exchange rates may cause fluctuations in our results of operations that are not related to our operations. Because we own assets overseas and derive revenue from our international operations, we may incur currency translation losses or gains due to changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the United States Dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Live Nation’s international operations accounted for approximately 35% of its revenue. Although we cannot predict the future relationship between the United States Dollar and the currencies used by our international businesses, principally the British Pound and the Euro, Live Nation experienced a foreign exchange rate net loss of $39.9 million in 2009 which had a negative effect on its operating income and, in 2008 and 2007, Live Nation had net gains of $0.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively, which had a positive effect on its operating income. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Ticketmaster’s international operations accounted for approximately 27% of its revenue. Although we cannot predict the future relationship between the United States Dollar and the currencies used by our international businesses, principally the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, Ticketmaster experienced foreign exchange rate net losses of $7.2 million and $2.2 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, which had a negative effect on its operating income and, in 2007, Ticketmaster had a net gain of $3.3 million which had a positive effect on its operating income. We may enter into future acquisitions and long-term artist rights arrangements and take certain actions in connection with such transactions that could affect the price of our common stock. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would offer growth opportunities. We also may enter into additional long-term arrangements with certain artists under which we would acquire the rights to certain music-related activities, including touring, merchandising, recording, online fan clubs, film/DVD and other rights, or a subset of these rights. In the event of future acquisitions or artist rights arrangements, we could: • use a significant portion of our available cash; • issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt; • incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown; 24 Table of Contents • incur amortization expenses related to intangibles; and • incur large accounting write-offs. Such actions by us could harm our results from operations and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our compliance with antitrust, competition and other regulations may limit our operations and future acquisitions. Our future growth rate depends in part on our selective acquisition of additional businesses. A significant portion of our growth has been attributable to acquisitions, including, among others, our acquisitions of HOB and an equity interest in AMG. We may be unable to identify other suitable targets for further acquisition or make further acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite government approvals. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with: • integrating the operations, financial reporting, technologies and personnel of acquired companies; • managing geographically dispersed operations; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; and • the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, expenses to pursue the acquisition, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions that we may pursue could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. We are also subject to laws and regulations, including those relating to antitrust, that could significantly affect our ability to expand our business through acquisitions. For example, the Federal Trade Commission and the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice with respect to our domestic acquisitions, and the European Commission (the antitrust regulator of the European Union) and the United Kingdom Competition Commission with respect to our European acquisitions, have the authority to challenge our acquisitions on antitrust grounds before or after the acquisitions are completed. State agencies may also have standing to challenge these acquisitions under state or federal antitrust law. Comparable authorities in other jurisdictions also have the ability to challenge our foreign acquisitions. Our failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, regulatory actions or legal proceedings against us, the imposition of fines, penalties or judgments against us or significant limitations on our activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. New or revised requirements imposed by governmental regulatory authorities could have adverse effects on us, including increased costs of compliance. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by these governmental authorities. In addition, the credit agreement for the senior secured credit facility and the terms of our subsidiary’s redeemable preferred stock restrict our ability to make acquisitions. There is the risk of personal injuries and accidents in connection with our live music events, which could subject us to personal injury or other claims and increase our expenses, as well as reduce attendance at our live music events, causing a decrease in our revenue. There are inherent risks involved with producing live music events. As a result, personal injuries and accidents have, and may, occur from time to time, which could subject us to claims and liabilities for personal injuries. Incidents in connection with our live music events at any of our venues or venues that we rent could also result in claims, reducing operating income or reducing attendance at our events, causing a decrease in our revenue. We are currently subject to wrongful death claims, as well as other litigation. While we maintain insurance polices that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient, in management’s judgment, to protect us from material financial loss for personal injuries sustained by persons at our venues or accidents in the ordinary course of business, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances. 25 Table of Contents The success of our ticketing operations depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our ticketing operations depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructures, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in the information systems and infrastructures of our ticketing operations may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent us from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in the systems and infrastructures of our business, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of our business to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, we receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the respective privacy and data security policies maintained by our business. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of the consumer and other user data collected by our business. The failure of us and/or the various third-party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of our business, discourage potential users from trying the products and services that we offer and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Costs associated with, and our ability to obtain, adequate insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Heightened concerns and challenges regarding property, casualty, liability, business interruption and other insurance coverage have resulted from terrorist and related security incidents. As a result, we may experience increased difficulty obtaining high policy limits of coverage at reasonable costs, including coverage for acts of terrorism. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our venues, which are generally located near major cities and which hold events typically attended by a large number of fans. At December 31, 2009, Live Nation had property and equipment with a net book value of approximately $750.0 million. At December 31, 2009, Ticketmaster had property and equipment with a net book value of approximately $101.0 million. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, may result in significant increases in insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits with deductibles that we believe to be reasonable. We cannot assure you that future increases in insurance costs and difficulties obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our profitability, thereby possibly impacting our operating results and growth. 26 Table of Contents In addition, we enter into various agreements with artists from time to time, including long-term artist rights arrangements. The profitability of those arrangements depends upon those artists’ willingness and ability to continue performing, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at reasonable costs to adequately protect us against the death, disability or other failure of such artists to continue engaging in revenue-generating activities under those agreements. We cannot guarantee that our insurance policy coverage limits, including insurance coverage for property, casualty, liability, artists and business interruption losses and acts of terrorism, would be adequate under the circumstances should one or multiple events occur at or near any of our venues, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. We cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our venues could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability were to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer were unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. Costs associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. Growth or maintenance of our existing revenue depends in part on consistent investment in our venues. Therefore, we expect to continue to make substantial capital improvements in our venues to meet long-term increasing demand, to increase entertainment value and to increase revenue. We frequently have a number of significant capital projects underway. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence the ultimate costs and timing of various capital improvements at our venues, including: • availability of financing on favorable terms; • unforeseen changes in design; • increases in the cost of construction materials and labor; • additional land acquisition costs; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • litigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site; • national or regional economic changes; • environmental or hazardous conditions; and • undetected soil or land conditions. The amount of capital expenditures can vary significantly from year to year. In addition, actual costs could vary materially from our estimates if the factors listed above and our assumptions about the quality of materials or workmanship required or the cost of financing such construction were to change. Construction is also subject to governmental permitting processes which, if changed, could materially affect the ultimate cost. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and our failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our live music venue operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, both domestically and internationally, governing matters such as construction, renovation and operation of our venues, as well as: • licensing, permitting and zoning, including noise ordinances; • human health, safety and sanitation requirements; • requirements with respect to the service of food and alcoholic beverages; • working conditions, labor, minimum wage and hour, citizenship and employment laws; • compliance with the ADA and the DDA; • sales and other taxes and withholding of taxes; • privacy laws and protection of personally identifiable information; • historic landmark rules; and • environmental protection laws. 27 Table of Contents We cannot predict the extent to which any future laws or regulations will impact our operations. The regulations relating to our food service in our venues are many and complex. Although we generally contract with a third-party vendor for these services at our owned and/or operated venues, we cannot assure you that we or our third-party vendors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times or that we or our third-party vendors will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations or that we will not be held liable for violations by third-party vendors. Furthermore, additional or amended regulations in this area may significantly increase the cost of compliance. We also serve alcoholic beverages at many of our venues during live music events and must comply with applicable licensing laws, as well as state and local service laws, commonly called dram shop statutes. Dram shop statutes generally prohibit serving alcoholic beverages to certain persons such as an individual who is intoxicated or a minor. If we violate dram shop laws, we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the customer. Although we generally hire outside vendors to provide these services at our operated venues and regularly sponsor training programs designed to minimize the likelihood of such a situation, we cannot guarantee that intoxicated or minor customers will not be served or that liability for their acts will not be imposed on us. We cannot assure you that additional regulation in this area would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We must also obtain and comply with the terms of licenses in order to sell alcoholic beverages in the states in which we serve alcoholic beverages. From time to time, governmental bodies have proposed legislation that could have an effect on our business. For example, some legislatures have proposed laws in the past that would impose potential liability on us and other promoters and producers of live music events for entertainment taxes and for incidents that occur at our events, particularly relating to drugs and alcohol. We and our venues are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances, as well as zoning and noise level restrictions which may affect, among other things, the hours of operations of our venues. Additionally, certain laws and regulations could hold us strictly, jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of hazardous substance contamination at our facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites, and could hold us responsible for any personal or property damage related to any contamination. We face intense competition in the live music, ticketing and artist services industries, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenue, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our business segments are in highly competitive industries, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenue. We compete in the live music industry and within this industry we compete with other venues to book performers, and, in the markets in which we promote music concerts, we face competition from other promoters and venue operators. Our competitors compete with us for key employees who have relationships with popular music artists that have a history of being able to book such artists for concerts and tours. These competitors may engage in more extensive development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential artists. Our competitors may develop services, advertising options or music venues that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We compete in the ticketing industry and the intense competition that we face in the ticketing industry could cause the volume of our ticketing services business to decline. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may face direct competition in the live music industry with our prospective or current primary ticketing clients, who primarily include live event content providers (such as owners or operators of live event venues). This direct competition with our prospective or current primary ticketing clients could result in a decline in the number of clients we may obtain and a decline in the volume of our ticketing services business, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Other variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenue, the number of sponsors, event attendance, ticket prices or profit margins include: • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower sponsorships as we attempt to retain advertisers or which may cause us to lose advertisers to our competitors offering better programs that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, including increased guarantees to performers, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers via ticket prices; • our competitors may offer more favorable terms than we do in order to obtain agreements for new venues or to obtain events for the venues they operate; 28 Table of Contents • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive entertainment alternatives than we currently offer, which may lead to reduction in attendance at live events, a loss of ticket sales or to lower ticket prices; • other entertainment options available to our audiences that we do not offer; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which may cause us to lose audiences as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence, or which may cause sponsors to be unwilling to pay for sponsorship and advertising opportunities if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective. We believe that barriers to entry into the live music promotion business are low and that certain local promoters are increasingly expanding the geographic scope of their operations. We depend upon unionized labor for the provision of some of our services and any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt our business. The stagehands at some of our venues and other employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our union agreements typically have a term of three years and thus regularly expire and require negotiation in the course of our business. Upon the expiration of any of our collective bargaining agreements, however, we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on terms favorable to us, and our business operations may be interrupted as a result of labor disputes or difficulties and delays in the process of renegotiating our collective bargaining agreements. In addition, our business operations at one or more of our facilities may also be interrupted as a result of labor disputes by outside unions attempting to unionize a venue even though we do not have unionized labor at that venue currently. A work stoppage at one or more of our owned and/or operated venues or at our promoted events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict the effect that a potential work stoppage will have on our expenses. We are dependent upon our ability to lease, acquire and develop live music venues, and if we are unable to do so on acceptable terms, or at all, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We require access to venues to generate revenue from live music events. For these events, we use venues that we own, but we also operate a number of our live music venues under various agreements which include leases with third parties or equity or booking agreements, which are agreements where we contract to book the events at a venue for a specific period of time. Our long-term success in the live music business will depend in part on the availability of venues, our ability to lease these venues and our ability to enter into booking agreements upon their expiration. As many of these agreements are with third parties over whom we have little or no control, we may be unable to renew these agreements or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms or at all, and may be unable to obtain favorable agreements with venues. Our ability to renew these agreements or obtain new agreements on favorable terms depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as national and local business conditions and competition from other promoters. If the cost of renewing these agreements is too high or the terms of any new agreement with a new venue are unacceptable or incompatible with our existing operations, we may decide to forego these opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain attractive agreements with substitute venues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We plan to continue to expand our operations through the development of live music venues and the expansion of existing live music venues, which poses a number of risks, including: • construction of live music venues may result in cost overruns, delays or unanticipated expenses; • desirable sites for live music venues may be unavailable or costly; and • the attractiveness of our venue locations may deteriorate over time. Additionally, the market potential of live music venue sites cannot be precisely determined, and our live music venues may face competition in markets from unexpected sources. Newly constructed live music venues may not perform up to our expectations. We face significant competition for potential live music venue locations and for opportunities to acquire existing live music venues. Because of this competition, we may be unable to add to or maintain the number of our live music venues on terms we consider acceptable. 29 Table of Contents Our revenues depend in part on the promotional success of our marketing campaigns, and there can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenue or profits. Similar to many companies, we spend significant amounts on advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns for our live music events and other business activities. Such marketing activities include, among others, promotion of ticket sales, premium seat sales, hospitality and other services for our events and venues and advertising associated with our distribution of related souvenir merchandise and apparel. During 2009, Live Nation spent approximately 4.3% of its revenue and Ticketmaster spent approximately 4.4% of its revenue on marketing, including advertising, and there can be no assurance that such advertising, promotional and other marketing campaigns will be successful or will generate revenue or profits. Poor weather adversely affects attendance at our live music events, which could negatively impact our financial performance from period to period. We promote many live music events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and merchandise, among other things. Poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations particularly because we promote a finite number of events. Due to weather conditions, we may be required to reschedule an event to another available day or a different venue, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively impact the attendance at the event, as well as food, beverage and merchandise sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods. If we are unable to reschedule events due to poor weather, we are forced to refund the ticket revenue for those events. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks. The occurrence and threat of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, intentional or unintentional mass-casualty incidents, natural disasters or similar events, may substantially decrease the use of and demand for our services and the attendance at live music events, which may decrease our revenue or expose us to substantial liability. The terrorism and security incidents in the past, military actions in foreign locations, and periodic elevated terrorism alerts have raised numerous challenging operating factors, including public concerns regarding air travel, military actions and additional national or local catastrophic incidents, causing a nationwide disruption of commercial and leisure activities. Following past terrorism actions, some artists refused to travel or book tours, which adversely affected our music business. The occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks, natural disasters such as earthquakes and severe floods or similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to negatively affect the economies of the United States and other foreign countries where we do business. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. Our stock price has fluctuated between $2.47 and $25.63 over the past three years. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to the seasonality of our business and other factors related to our business; • our loss or inability to obtain significant popular artists; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or divestitures; • the publication by securities analysts of financial estimates or reports about our business; • changes by securities analysts of earnings estimates or reports, or our inability to meet those estimates or achieve any goals described in those reports; • the disclosure of facts about our business that may differ from those assumed by securities analysts in preparing their estimates or reports about our company; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • overall market fluctuations; • the withdrawal of the Tender Offer by LMC Events, LLC; and 30 Table of Contents • general economic conditions. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these Risk Factors could have a significant and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors could lose all or part of the value of their common stock. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our corporate governance documents, rights agreement and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors and supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law, for instance, also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any written agreement to the contrary, which agreement does not currently exist, Clear Channel will have no duty to refrain from engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or doing business with any of our customers or vendors or employing or otherwise engaging or soliciting any of our officers, directors or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if Clear Channel acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both us and Clear Channel, we will generally renounce our interest in the corporate opportunity. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy in such corporate opportunity that will belong to Clear Channel. Clear Channel will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, have satisfied its fiduciary duty with respect to such a corporate opportunity and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that it acquires or seeks the corporate opportunity for itself, directs that corporate opportunity to another person or does not present that corporate opportunity to us. These provisions could make an acquisition of us less advantageous to a third party. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring, 15% or more of our common stock, and in the case of certain Schedule 13G filers, 20% or more of our common stock, and in the case of Liberty Media and certain of its affiliates, 35% or more of our common stock, without approval of our board of directors under specified circumstances, our other stockholders have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. Therefore, the plan makes an acquisition much more costly to a potential acquirer. In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facility provide that the lenders can require us to repay all outstanding indebtedness upon a change of control, and the redeemable preferred stock requires one of our subsidiaries to offer to repurchase the redeemable preferred stock at 101% of the liquidation preference upon a change of control. These provisions make an acquisition more costly to a potential acquirer. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Redeemable Preferred Stock. 31 Table of Contents We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, which could affect its market price. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the growth, development and expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The declaration, payment and amount of future dividends, if any, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow from operations, current and anticipated capital requirements and expansion plans, the income tax laws then in effect and the requirements of Delaware law. In addition, our redeemable preferred stock and the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility include restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends without meeting certain financial ratios and obtaining the consent of the lenders. Accordingly, holders of common stock will not receive cash payments on their investment and the market price may be adversely affected. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. We have a large number of shares of common stock outstanding and available for resale beginning at various points in time in the future. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2009, there were 84.4 million shares of Live Nation common stock outstanding, including 0.7 million shares of unvested restricted stock awards and excluding treasury shares, 2.1 million shares of common stock issuable from currently exercisable Live Nation options at a weighted average exercise price of $17.21 per share and a warrant to purchase 0.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $13.73. As of December 31, 2009, there were 57.4 million shares of Ticketmaster common stock outstanding, excluding treasury shares, and 2.2 million shares of common stock issuable from currently exercisable Ticketmaster options at a weighted average exercise price of $29.07 per share. These Ticketmaster outstanding shares were exchanged for Live Nation common stock and Ticketmaster options were assumed by Live Nation in connection with the Merger. We continually explore acquisition opportunities consistent with our strategy. These acquisitions may involve the payment of cash, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of common stock or other securities. Any such issuance could be at a valuation lower than the trading price of our common stock at the time. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the notes. Conversion of the notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may affect our per share results and the trading price of our common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Issuances of stock on conversion may also affect our per share results of operations. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. We can issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could materially adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue “blank check” preferred stock, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and rights of which may be fixed or altered from time to time by our board of directors. Our subsidiaries may also issue additional shares of preferred stock. Accordingly, the board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the common stockholders or the market value of the common stock. Risks Relating to Our Separation from Clear Channel The Separation could result in significant tax liability to our initial public stockholders. Clear Channel received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service substantially to the effect that the distribution of our common stock to its stockholders qualifies as a tax-free distribution for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. Although a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the ruling is based upon representations by Clear Channel that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the 32 Table of Contents ruling. Therefore, in addition to obtaining the ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, Clear Channel made it a condition to the Separation that Clear Channel obtain a legal opinion that the Distribution will qualify as a tax-free distribution for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The opinion relies on the ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. In addition, the opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Clear Channel and us, which if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. Notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel of the ruling and opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in taking this position, our initial public stockholders could be subject to significant United States federal income tax liability. In general, our initial public stockholders could be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. The Separation could result in significant tax-related liabilities to us. As discussed above, notwithstanding receipt by Clear Channel of the ruling and the opinion of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in taking this position, Clear Channel could be subject to a significant United States federal income tax liability. In general, Clear Channel would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, even if the Distribution otherwise were to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to Clear Channel as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value under Section 355(e) of the Code, if the Distribution were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Clear Channel or us. For this purpose, any acquisitions of Clear Channel stock or of our stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Clear Channel may be able to rebut that presumption. Although such corporate-level taxes, if any, resulting from a taxable distribution generally would be imposed on Clear Channel, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to indemnify Clear Channel and its affiliates against tax-related liabilities, if any, caused by the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) if the failure to so qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to our stock, assets or business, or a breach of the relevant representations or covenants made by us in the tax matters agreement. If the failure of the Separation to qualify under Section 355 of the Code is for any reason for which neither we nor Clear Channel is responsible, we and Clear Channel have agreed in the tax matters agreement that we will each be responsible for 50% of the tax-related liabilities arising from the failure to so qualify. Clear Channel reported a $2.4 billion capital loss as a result of the Separation. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Related-Party Transactions—Relationship with Clear Channel for a more detailed discussion of the tax matters agreement between Clear Channel and us. We could be liable for income taxes owed by Clear Channel. Each member of the Clear Channel consolidated group, which includes Clear Channel, our company and our subsidiaries through December 21, 2005, and Clear Channel’s other subsidiaries, is jointly and severally liable for the United States federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Consequently, we could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Clear Channel consolidated group. Disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the Internal Revenue Service in amounts that we cannot quantify. In addition, Clear Channel has recognized a capital loss for United States federal income tax purposes in connection with the Separation. If Clear Channel is unable to deduct such capital loss for United States federal income tax purposes as a result of any action we take following the Separation or our breach of a relevant representation or covenant made by us in the tax matters agreement, we have agreed in the tax matters agreement to indemnify Clear Channel for the lost tax benefits that Clear Channel would have otherwise realized if it were able to deduct this loss. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Related-Party Transactions—Relationship with Clear Channel. Risks Relating to Our Merger with Ticketmaster The Merger resulted in changes to our board and management that may affect our strategy. Upon completion of the Merger, the composition of our board of directors and management team changed in accordance with the merger agreement, as seven new members from Ticketmaster were appointed to our board. In addition, we have a new Executive Chairman. This new board and management may affect the business strategy and operating decisions of the combined company. 33 Table of Contents Although we expect that the Merger will result in benefits to Live Nation, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The Merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently with principal offices in two locations. Due to legal restrictions, we have conducted only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies. The success of the combination of Live Nation and Ticketmaster will be dependent in large part on the success of our management in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the two companies. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully completing the integration of the operations of Live Nation and Ticketmaster or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of the Merger, including additional revenue opportunities, could impair our results of operations. Challenges involved in this integration include, without limitation: • integrating successfully each company’s operations, technologies, products and services; • reducing the costs associated with operations; and • combining the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. We may not successfully complete the integration of the operations in a timely manner and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the Merger to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies include cost savings associated with anticipated restructurings and other operational efficiencies, and revenue enhancement opportunities. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved. In connection with the Merger, we became subject to a proposed Final Judgment imposing certain obligations on us, and, in addition, the U.S. Department of Justice or the U.S. District Court may seek to modify the terms of the proposed Final Judgment before it is entered as final and any such changes could negatively impact the Company’s business. On January 25, 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, and several State Attorneys General jointly filed with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia a Complaint against the proposed merger between Live Nation and Ticketmaster and a proposed Final Judgment, or the proposed Final Judgment, that imposes certain obligations on us in order to address the issues the DOJ raised in its complaint. Among other things, the proposed Final Judgment requires us to offer a license to the Ticketmaster host ticketing technology to Anschutz Entertainment Group, to divest Ticketmaster’s Paciolan ticketing business to a DOJ-approved purchaser within 60 days, to agree to abide by certain behavioral remedies that prevent us from engaging in retaliatory business tactics or improper trying arrangements and to provide periodic reports to the DOJ about our compliance with the proposed Final Judgment. The proposed Final Judgment is subject to a 60-day public comment period, after which time the court may enter the Final Judgment as written, or it may modify the order. The Final Judgment will be in effect and will bind us for ten years from the date that the court enters it. We stipulated to an interim Hold Separate order on January 25, 2010 that commits us to complying with the terms of the proposed Final Judgment until a Final Judgment is entered by the court. During the duration of the Final Judgment, we will be restricted from engaging in certain business activities that, absent the Final Judgment, would be lawful for us to undertake. Our inability to undertake these business strategies could disadvantage us when we compete against firms that are not restricted by any such order. Our compliance with the Final Judgment therefore creates certain unquantifiable business risks for us. Also on January 25, 2010, we entered into a Consent Agreement, or the Canadian Consent Agreement, with the Canadian Competition Commission, which had the effect of imposing essentially the same terms as the proposed Final Judgment on our business in Canada. The Canadian Consent Agreement will remain in effect for ten years following the date of the agreement. The Canadian Consent Agreement creates similar risks for us, both in terms of creating potential enforcement actions and in limiting us from pursuing certain business practices. The terms of Live Nation Worldwide’s agreement with CTS will cause Live Nation Worldwide to incur ongoing costs and could reduce operational efficiencies that the combined company might otherwise obtain through the Merger. Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., which is referred to as Live Nation Worldwide, and CTS Eventim AG, which is referred to as CTS, are parties to an agreement, which is referred to as the CTS agreement, pursuant to which CTS licenses intellectual property to Live Nation Worldwide that is core to Live Nation’s in-house ticketing platform. Under the terms of the CTS agreement, Live Nation Worldwide will be required to take actions and incur expenses, and may be limited in actions it can take, which could limit the ability of Live Nation and Ticketmaster to fully integrate their ticketing platforms successfully and realize the full operational efficiencies that the combined company might otherwise obtain through the Merger. For events in North America, CTS will be generally entitled to receive, during the 10-year term of the agreement, a per ticket license fee upon the sale of certain tickets that Live Nation Worldwide or any of substantially all of its subsidiaries, which are collectively referred to as the Live Nation Worldwide entities, have the right to distribute. This per ticket fee for events in North America will be payable to CTS regardless of whether the combined company chooses to use the CTS ticketing platform, Ticketmaster’s ticketing platform or another ticketing platform for the sale of tickets that the Live Nation Worldwide entities have the right to distribute. In addition, for events in certain European countries outside of the United Kingdom, Live Nation Worldwide generally will be required, during a 10-year term, to exclusively book on the CTS ticketing platform all tickets that the Live Nation Worldwide entities have the right to distribute (or, to the extent other ticketing platforms are used, Live Nation Worldwide will generally be required to pay to CTS the same fee that would have been payable had the CTS platform been used). For events in the United Kingdom, Live Nation Worldwide will be required, provided that CTS first satisfies a significant threshold commitment, to offer for sale on the CTS UK website and pay a corresponding fee for a portion of the tickets that the Live Nation Worldwide entities have the right to distribute for events promoted by the Live Nation Worldwide entities for a 10-year term commencing on January 1, 2010. Finally, the Live Nation Worldwide entities may be precluded from offering ticketing services to third parties in certain European countries during the term of the CTS agreement. In addition, upon completion of the Merger, for a period of two years thereafter, CTS will have the right to terminate the CTS agreement upon six months advance notice. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 