1A. Risk Factors—Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that we produce.” 20 Table of Contents Formation We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on June 4, 1997. In 2005, we began oil and gas operations under the name Petro Resources Corporation. In May 2009, we restructured our management team and refocused our business strategy, and in July 2009 we changed our name to Magnum Hunter Resources Corporation. The restructured management team includes Gary C. Evans, as our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Evans is the former founder, chairman and chief executive officer of Magnum Hunter Resources, Inc., a company of similar name that was sold to Cimarex Energy Corporation for $2.2 billion in June 2005. Employees At December 31, 2011, we had 305 full-time employees, of which 16 were officers. None of our employees is represented by a union. Management considers our relations with employees to be very good. Facilities Our principal executive offices are located in Houston, Texas, and consist of approximately 15,000 square feet of leased commercial office space. Our lease expires with respect to approximately 9,000 and 6,000 square feet of this space in January 2016 and May 2014, respectively. We also lease approximately 1,600 square feet of additional office space in this building, under a lease that expires in December 2013. We currently sublease this additional space. Our Triad Hunter offices consist of approximately 9,000 square feet of leased office space in Marietta, Ohio, under leases that expire in 2012, as well as field offices in Kentucky and West Virginia. Our Magnum Hunter Production offices consist of approximately 9,100 square feet of leased office space under a lease that expires in 2013, in an office building owned by the Company in Lexington, Kentucky. Our Williston Hunter U.S. offices consist of approximately 4,500 square feet of leased office space in Denver, Colorado, under a lease that expires in 2014. Our Williston Hunter Canada offices consist of approximately 8,300 square feet of leased office space in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, under a lease that expires in 2014. We also own a commercial office building in Grapevine, Texas containing approximately 10,200 square feet, which houses our accounting functions. Segment Reporting For information as to the geographic areas and industry segments in which we operate, namely U.S. Upstream, Canadian Upstream, Midstream and Oil Field Services, see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, “Other Information—Segment Reporting (Unaudited),” which is incorporated to this Item 1 by reference. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 650, Houston, Texas 77056. Our telephone number is (832) 369-6986. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that is electronically filed with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on our website (www.magnumhunterresources.com) our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information on our website does not constitute part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors described below should be considered carefully in evaluating our Company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Future economic conditions in the U.S., Canada and global markets may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The U.S., Canadian and other world economies are slowly recovering from the economic recession that began in 2008. While economic growth has resumed, it remains modest and the timing of an economic recovery is uncertain. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in recent years. Unemployment rates remain very high and businesses and consumer confidence levels have not yet fully recovered to pre-recession levels. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including for oil and natural gas. A lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand for our crude oil and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and therefore their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our daily production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the current uncertainty in the global economy; • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the condition of the U.S., Canadian and global economies; • the actions of certain foreign countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, war or civil unrest in or affecting other oil producing activities of certain countries; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per-unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically in the future. The higher operating costs associated with many of our oil fields will make our profitability more sensitive to oil price declines. A sustained 22 Table of Contents decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the foreseeable future. Since we entered the oil and gas business in April 2005, through December 31, 2011, we had incurred a cumulative net loss from operations of $138.1million. If we fail to eventually generate profits from our operations, we will not be able to sustain our business. We may never report profitable operations or generate sufficient revenue to maintain our Company as a going concern. We rely on liquidity from our credit facilities and equity and debt financings to fund our operations and capital budget, which liquidity may not be available on acceptable terms or at all in the future. We depend upon borrowings under our credit facilities and the availability of equity and debt financing to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures. Borrowings under our credit facilities and the availability of equity and debt financing are affected by commodity prices and prevailing economic conditions in our industry and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether additional liquidity from equity or debt financings beyond our credit facilities will be available or acceptable on our terms, or at all, in the foreseeable future. We do not have a significant operating history and, as a result, there is a limited amount of information about us on which to make an investment decision. We have acquired a number of properties since June 2009 and, consequently, a large amount of our focus has been on assimilating the properties, operations and personnel we have acquired into our organization. Accordingly, there is little operating history upon which to judge our business strategy, our management team or our current operations. The recent financial crisis may have lasting effects on our liquidity, business and financial condition that we cannot predict. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to obtain capital in the long-term or short-term debt or equity capital markets or an inability to access bank financing. A prolonged credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system would likely materially affect our liquidity, business and financial condition. The economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers and cause our commodity hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Failure to successfully integrate our recently acquired businesses could negatively impact our future business and financial results. The NGAS and NuLoch acquisitions are our largest acquisitions to date and as such may consume a significant amount of our management resources. Further, the acquisition of NuLoch represents an expansion of our operations into a new geographic core area, with operating conditions and a regulatory environment that may not be as familiar to us as our existing core operating areas. The success of our recent acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the acquired businesses with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of the acquired entities in an efficient and effective manner. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. 23 Table of Contents Upon the completion of the NuLoch acquisition, we expanded our operations into Canada, which subjects us to additional regulations and risks from foreign operations, including currency fluctuations, which could impact our financial position and results of operations. Prior to the completion of the NuLoch acquisition, we operated solely in the U.S., primarily in the Appalachian Basin, the Williston Basin and south Texas. Upon the consummation of the NuLoch acquisition, we expanded our operations into portions of Canada, which exposes us to a new regulatory environment and risks from foreign operations. Some of these additional risks include, but are not limited to: • increases in governmental royalties; • application of new tax laws (including host-country export, excise and income taxes and U.S. taxes on foreign operations); • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • legal and governmental regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; and • possible language and cultural differences. Our Canadian operations also may be adversely affected by the laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment. In addition, if a dispute arises with respect to our foreign operations, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts of the U.S. Our operations require significant amounts of capital and additional financing may be necessary in order for us to continue our exploration and midstream activities, including meeting certain drilling obligations under our existing lease obligations and expanding our pipeline facilities. Our cash flow from our reserves, if any, may not be sufficient to fund our ongoing activities at all times. From time to time, we may require additional financing in order to carry out our oil and gas acquisitions and exploration and development activities and our midstream activities. Failure to obtain such financing on a timely basis could cause us to forfeit our interest in certain properties as a result of not fulfilling our existing drilling commitments. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire unless production is established or we meet certain capital expenditure and drilling requirements. If our revenues from our reserves decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, it will affect our ability to expend the necessary capital to replace our reserves or to maintain our current production. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build and expand our gas gathering pipeline system. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements or available to us on favorable terms. If our access to oil and gas markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our natural gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints. Market conditions or the restriction in the availability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression 24 Table of Contents facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. If drilling in the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish areas proves to be successful, the amount of oil and natural gas being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available in these areas. If this occurs, it will be necessary for new pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish areas may not occur for lack of financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems, such as our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System, necessary to gather our gas to deliver to interstate pipelines. In such event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell natural gas production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project for these specific regions, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow. We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of purchasers of our production. Our inability to continue to provide services to key customers, if not offset by additional sales to our other customers, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices and activity levels in certain regions where we are active, causing periodic shortages. During periods of high oil and gas prices, we have experienced shortages of equipment, including drilling rigs and completion equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with higher commodity prices and increased activity levels. In addition, there is currently a shortage of hydraulic fracturing capacity in many of the areas in which we operate. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, oilfield equipment and services and personnel in our exploration, production and midstream operations. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results and/or restrict or delay our ability to drill wells, construct gathering pipeline and conduct other operations that we currently have planned and budgeted, causing us to miss our forecasts and projections. 25 Table of Contents We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an ownership interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these non-operated properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production, revenues and reserves. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the nature and timing of the operator’s drilling and other activities; • the timing and amount of required capital expenditures; • the operator’s geological and engineering expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • the operator’s selection of suitable technology. NGAS conducted a portion of its operations through drilling partnerships, and we recently sponsored one drilling partnership, and plan to sponsor additional drilling and/or income partnerships, which subject us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. NGAS conducted a portion of its operations through drilling partnerships with third parties. Our Magnum Hunter Production subsidiary recently completed a sponsored drilling partnership and plans to sponsor an additional drilling and/or income partnership or partnerships in 2012. Under this partnership structure, proceeds from the private placement of interests in each investment partnership, together with the sponsor’s capital contribution, are contributed to a separate joint venture or “program” that the sponsor forms with that partnership to conduct drilling or property operations. These third parties may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third party obligations, including the ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. The failure to continue our drilling and/or income partnerships or other joint venture projects or to resolve disagreements with our drilling and/or income partnership partners could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such partnerships, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our development, exploration and midstream operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is very capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for, and development, production, gathering, transportation, processing and acquisition of, oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from bank borrowings, cash generated by operations and proceeds from preferred and common stock equity offerings. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with a combination of the sale of common and preferred equity, asset sales, cash flow from operations and current and new financing arrangements with our banks. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the amount of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; 26 Table of Contents • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; and • our ability to obtain commitments from third party producers for the gathering of their natural gas production through our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may need to seek additional financing in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all, depending on market conditions. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, or could prevent us from expanding, maintaining and operating our pipeline facilities. Also, our credit facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make certain restricted payments, change the nature of our business, acquire or make expenditures for oil and gas properties outside of the U.S. and Canada, dispose of our assets or enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, make investments, loans or advances, pay dividends on our outstanding stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, create new subsidiaries and enter into certain derivative transactions. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations, and we may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks that we may ultimately face. We maintain significant insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses to protect against the risks we foresee. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry certain types or amounts of insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, it is not possible to insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Our midstream activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with constructing, operating and maintaining pipelines and related equipment, including the possibility of pipeline leaks, breaks and ruptures, pipeline damage due to natural hazards, such as ground movement and weather, and personal injuries and death. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then that accident or other event could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon partnering and consultant arrangements. We had a total of 309 full-time employees as of February 27, 2012. Despite this number of employees, we expect that we will continue to require the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various 27 Table of Contents professional services, including reservoir engineering, land, legal, environmental and tax services. We will also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and leasing. Our dependence on third party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to: • the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed; and • the risk that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. Our operations depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. Our business or prospects could be adversely affected if any of these persons does not continue in their management role with us and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Additionally, we do not presently carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers or senior management. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and fluids; • fires and natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • adverse weather conditions; 28 Table of Contents • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies. We purchase and acquire from third parties or directly from the mineral fee owners certain oil and gas leasehold interests and other real property interests upon which we will perform our drilling and exploration activities. The existence of a title deficiency can significantly devalue an acquired interest or render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we generally rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or our internal independent landmen who perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and abstract facilities before attempting to acquire or place under lease a specific mineral interest and before drilling a well on a leased tract. The failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, exploiting mineral leases, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in an efficient manner even in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. We have limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish formations and limited information regarding reserves and decline rates in these areas. Wells drilled to these areas are more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completion techniques than wells in conventional areas. We have limited experience in the drilling and completion of Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish formations wells, including limited horizontal drilling and completion experience. Other operators in these plays may have significantly more experience in the drilling and completion of these wells, including the drilling and completion of horizontal wells. In addition, we have limited information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and production decline rates in these areas due to their limited histories. The wells drilled in Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale and Bakken Shale/Three Forks/Sanish formations are primarily horizontal and require more artificial stimulation, which makes them more expensive to drill and complete. The wells also are more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore due to the length of the lateral portions of these unconventional wells. The fracturing of these formations will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing geological formations in conventional areas of operation. 29 Table of Contents Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete. The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. As of February 27, 2012, our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $340 million (which included borrowings under the MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility, the MHR Term Loan Facility and the Eureka Hunter Term Loan). We will incur additional debt from time to time, and such borrowings may be substantial. Our debt could have material adverse consequences to us, including the following: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including debt service requirements under our credit agreements; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other general corporate purposes may be impaired; • a significant portion of our cash flow is committed to payments on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes, such as future capital expenditures; • we are more vulnerable to price fluctuations and to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions and our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry is more limited; and • our ability to capitalize on business opportunities, and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to others in our industry, may be limited. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Product price derivative contracts may expose us to potential financial loss. To reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and will likely in the future enter into derivative contracts in order to economically hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. Derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. In addition, these derivative contracts may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Under the terms of our MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility and our MHR Term Loan Facility, the percentage of our total production volumes with respect to which we will be allowed to enter into derivative contracts is limited, and we therefore retain the risk of a price decrease for our remaining production volumes. Information as to these activities is set forth in the notes to our financial statements contained in our annual and quarterly reports that we file with the SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. If oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially triggering earlier-than-anticipated repayments of any outstanding debt obligations and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. There is a risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. We account for our crude oil and natural gas exploration and development activities using the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, developmental dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs, certain geological and geophysical expenses and delay rentals for oil and gas leases, are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the estimated future net cash flows from our properties. If capitalized costs exceed future cash flows, we write down the costs of the properties to our estimate of fair market value. Any such charge will not affect our cash flow from operating activities, but will reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. When evaluating our properties, we are required to test for potential write-downs at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets, which is typically on a field by field basis. Write-downs could occur if oil and gas prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our drilling results. Because our properties currently serve, and will likely continue to serve, as collateral for advances under our existing and future credit facilities, a write-down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. It is likely that the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the value of our securities, including our common stock. The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires managerial judgment to determine the proper classification of wells designated as developmental or exploratory, which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze and the determination that commercial reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and industry experience. Wells may be completed that are assumed to be productive but may actually deliver oil and gas in quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment of the wells at a later date. Future wells are drilled that target geological structures that are both developmental and exploratory in nature. A subsequent allocation of costs is then required to properly account for the results. The evaluation of oil 31 Table of Contents and gas leasehold acquisition costs requires judgment to estimate the fair value of these costs with reference to drilling activity in a given area. The Company incurred an impairment charge related to certain proved oil and gas properties acquired as part of our acquisition of NGAS in 2011 totaling $21.8 million due to a significant decline in natural gas prices at December 31, 2011. Impairment of proved oil and gas properties was calculated on a field by field basis under the successful efforts accounting method. An impairment was recorded based upon the estimated fair value of a field when the undiscounted reserve value of the field was less than the net capitalized cost of the field at December 31, 2011. Fair value was determined by calculating the present value of future net cash flows using NYMEX prices in effect during February 2012. We also incurred impairment charges associated with our undeveloped acreage of $306,000 and $802,000 in our Eagle Ford Shale and Appalachian Basin regions, respectively, due to expiring acreage that we chose not to develop. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if oil or gas prices subsequently increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record further impairments of the book values associated with oil and gas properties. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility and our MHR Term Loan Facility contain certain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to, with certain exceptions: • incur indebtedness; • grant liens; • make certain restricted payments; • change the nature of our business; • acquire or make expenditures for oil and gas properties outside of the U.S. and Canada; • dispose of our assets or enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions; • make investments, loans or advances; • pay dividends on our outstanding stock; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • create new subsidiaries; and • enter into certain derivative transactions. Our MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility also requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including maintaining: • a ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and exploration expenses, or EBITDAX, to interest of not less than 2.5 to 1.0; • a debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 4.25 to 1.0 for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, and of not more than 4.00 to 1.0 commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2012; and • a ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 or of not less than 1.05 to 1.0 commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012 if the amounts owed under the MHR Term Loan Facility have not been repaid in full as of such date. Our MHR Term Loan Facility also requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including maintaining: • an EBITDAX to interest ratio of not less than 2.125 to 1.0; 32 Table of Contents • a debt to EBITDAX ratio of not more than 5.00 to 1.0 for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, and of not more than 4.75 to 1.0 commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2012; and • a ratio of our total proved reserves to our indebtedness under our MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility and our MHR Term Loan Facility of not less than 1.5 to 1.0. The Eureka Hunter Revolver and the Eureka Hunter Term Loan also require Eureka Hunter Pipeline, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, to comply with certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or reduce our expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financings could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. Our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets, and any failure to meet our debt obligations would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Certain of our subsidiaries, including PRC Williston, LLC, Triad Hunter, LLC, Eagle Ford Hunter, Inc., Magnum Hunter Production, Inc., NGAS Hunter, LLC, Williston Hunter Canada, Inc. and Williston Hunter, Inc., have each guaranteed the performance of our obligations under our MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility and our MHR Term Loan Facility, and our obligations under these credit facilities have been collateralized through the grant of first and second priority liens on substantially all of the assets held by Magnum Hunter Resources Corporation and these restricted subsidiaries. An event of default under either of these credit facilities will constitute an event of default under the other. Eureka Hunter’s obligations under the Eureka Hunter Revolver and the Eureka Hunter Term Loan have been guaranteed by Eureka Hunter’s subsidiary, and have been collateralized through the grant of first and second priority liens on substantially all of the assets held by Eureka Hunter and its subsidiary. An event of default under either of these credit facilities will constitute an event of default under the other. The Eureka Hunter Revolver and the Eureka Hunter Term Loan are non-recourse to Magnum Hunter Resources Corporation and to its restricted subsidiaries under the MHR Senior Revolving Credit Facility and MHR Term Loan Facility. Our ability to meet our debt obligations under these credit facilities will depend on the future performance of our properties, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. Our failure to service any such debt could result in a default under the related credit facility and the credit facility under which such default is a cross-default, which could result in the loss of our ownership interests in the secured properties and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental laws, which could adversely affect our business. Exploration for and development, exploitation, production, processing, gathering, transportation and sale of oil and natural gas in the U.S. and Canada are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including complex tax laws and environmental laws and regulations. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws, regulations or incremental taxes and fees, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Energy Hunter Securities, Inc., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, is also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in connection with its broker-dealer activities relating to our drilling and/or income partnership programs. 33 Table of Contents It is possible that new taxes on our industry could be implemented and/or tax benefits could be eliminated or reduced, reducing our profitability and available cash flow. In addition to the short-term negative impact on our financial results, such additional burdens, if enacted, would reduce our funds available for reinvestment and thus ultimately reduce our growth and future oil and natural gas production. Matters subject to regulation include oil and gas production and saltwater disposal operations and our processing, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, such as hydrocarbons and naturally occurring radioactive materials, discharge permits for drilling operations, spacing of wells, environmental protection and taxation. We could incur significant costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental or other laws, including third party claims for personal injuries and property damage, reclamation costs, remediation and clean-up costs resulting from oil spills and pipeline leaks and ruptures and discharges of hazardous materials, fines and sanctions, and other environmental damages. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Congress has recently considered, is considering, and may continue to consider, legislation that, if adopted in its proposed or similar form, would deprive some companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives and deductions currently available to such companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective and whether such changes may apply retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available to us, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Several states, including Texas, are also considering implementing, or in some instances, have implemented, new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in connection therewith. In May 2011, a bill was passed by the Texas legislature that will require hydraulic fracturing operators to disclose the chemicals used in the fracturing process on a well-by-well basis. Further, various municipalities in several states, including Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio, have passed ordinances which seek to prohibit hydraulic fracturing. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. 34 Table of Contents In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. To our knowledge, there have been no citations, suits, or contamination of potable drinking water arising from our fracturing operations. We do not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, we believe our general liability and excess liability insurance policies would cover third party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that we produce. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic conditions. Based on these findings, in 2010 the EPA adopted two sets of regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The stationary source final rule addresses the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, construction and Title V operating permit programs, pursuant to which these permit programs have been “tailored” to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. In addition, EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain sources, including, among others, onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities. We are evaluating whether GHG emissions from our operations are subject to the GHG emissions reporting rule and expect to be able to comply with any applicable reporting obligations. Also, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states already have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise restricts emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur significant added costs to reduce emissions of GHGs or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and ngls we produce. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate change that could have significant physical effect, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 35 Table of Contents Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. To prepare our proved reserve estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil, natural gas and ngl prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil, natural gas and ngl prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil, natural gas and ngl prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for our drilling operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process, which may result in delays and restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of specific permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state, local or foreign authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of oil or natural gas, pipeline construction, gas processing facilities and associated well production equipment may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Our operations expose us to substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental matters. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling or midstream construction activities commence, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with our drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution that may result from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or injunctive relief. Under existing environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether the release resulted from our operations, or our operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress and related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Act, was enacted in 2010. The Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including certain oil and gas hedging transactions involving swaps. In particular, the Act includes a requirement that certain hedging transactions involving swaps be cleared and exchange-traded and a requirement to post cash collateral for non-cleared swap transactions, although, at this time, it is unclear which transactions will ultimately be required to be cleared and exchange-traded or which counterparties will be required to post cash collateral with respect to non-cleared swap transactions. The Act provides for a potential exception from the clearing and exchange-trading requirement for hedging transactions by commercial end-users, a category of non-financial entities in which we may be included. While the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and other federal agencies have adopted, and continue to adopt, numerous regulations pursuant to the Act, many of the key concepts and defined terms under the Act have not yet been delineated by rules and regulations to be adopted by the CFTC and other applicable regulatory agencies. As a consequence, it is difficult to predict the aggregate effect the Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder may have on our hedging activities. Whether we are required to submit our swap transactions for clearing or post cash collateral with respect to such transactions will depend on the final rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC. If we are subject to such requirements, significant liquidity issues could result by reducing our ability to use cash posted as collateral for investment or other corporate purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral could also limit our ability to execute strategic hedges, which would result in increased commodity price uncertainty and volatility in our future cash flows. The Act and related regulations will also require us to comply with certain futures and swaps position limits and new recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Act and related regulations could also materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Acquired properties may not be worth what we pay due to uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and other expected benefits, as well as potential liabilities. Successful property acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include exploration and development potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise. Our review of the properties we acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to fully assess the potential deficiencies of the properties. We do not typically inspect every well, and even when we inspect a well we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise. We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and our contractual indemnification may not be effective. Often, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties by the previous owners. If an acquired property is not performing as originally estimated, we may have an impairment which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not be successful, may substantially increase our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may create integration difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and intend to continue to acquire businesses or assets we believe complement our existing operations and business plan. We may not be able to successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations or achieve the desired profitability from such acquisitions. These acquisitions may require substantial capital expenditures and the incurrence of additional indebtedness which may change significantly our capitalization and results of operations. Further, these acquisitions could result in: • post-closing discovery of material undisclosed liabilities of the acquired business or assets, title or other defects with respect to acquired assets, discrepancies in furnished financial statements or other information or breaches of representations made by the sellers; • the unexpected loss of key employees or customers from acquired businesses; • difficulties resulting from our integration of the operations, systems and management of the acquired business; and • an unexpected diversion of our management’s attention from other operations. If acquisitions are unsuccessful or result in unanticipated events, such as the post-closing discovery of the matters described above, or if we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing operations, such acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our existing business. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. We pursue acquisitions as part of our growth strategy and there are risks in connection with acquisitions. Our growth has been attributable in part to acquisitions of producing properties and companies. We expect to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms we consider favorable. However, we cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified in the future, or that we will be able to finance such acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we compete against other companies for acquisitions, and we cannot assure you that we will successfully acquire any material property interests. Further, we cannot assure you that future acquisitions by us will be integrated successfully into our operations or will increase our profits. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of numerous factors beyond our control, including, without limitation: • recoverable reserves; • exploration and development potential; • future oil and natural gas prices; • operating costs; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. The resulting assessments are inexact and their accuracy uncertain, and such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies within the time frame required to complete the transactions. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is made. 38 Table of Contents Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may be substantially different in operating and geologic characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. While our current operations are primarily focused in the south Texas, West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky, North Dakota and Saskatchewan regions, we may pursue acquisitions of properties located in other geographic areas. Our current Eureka Hunter gathering operations and the expected future expansion of these operations subject us to additional governmental regulations. We are currently continuing the construction of our Eureka Hunter Pipeline System, which provides or is anticipated to provide gas gathering services primarily in support of our Company-owned properties as well as other upstream producers’ operations in West Virginia and Ohio. We have completed certain sections of the pipeline and anticipate further expansion of the pipeline in the future, which expansion will be determined by various factors, including the completion of construction, securing regulatory and governmental approvals, resolving any land management issues and connecting the pipeline to the producing sources of natural gas. The construction, operation and maintenance of the Eureka Hunter Pipeline System involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. There can be no assurance that our pipeline construction projects will be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. The operations of our gathering system are also subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, there exists the possibility for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from the Eureka Hunter Pipeline System could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. The use of geoscience, petrophysical and engineering analyses and other technical or operating data to evaluate drilling prospects is uncertain and does not guarantee drilling success or recovery of economically producible reserves. Our decisions to explore, develop and acquire prospects or properties targeting the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, Eagle Ford Shale, Bakken Shale and other areas depend on data obtained through geoscientific, petrophysical and engineering analyses, the results of which can be uncertain. Even when properly used and interpreted, data from whole cores, regional well log analyses and 2-D and 3-D seismic only assist our technical team in identifying hydrocarbon indicators and subsurface structures and estimating hydrocarbons in place. They do not allow us to know conclusively the amount of hydrocarbons in place and if those hydrocarbons are producible economically. In addition, the use of advanced drilling and completion technologies for the development of our unconventional 39 Table of Contents resources, such as horizontal drilling and multi-stage fracture stimulations, requires greater expenditures than traditional development drilling strategies. Our ability to commercially recover and produce the hydrocarbons that we believe are in place and attributable to our properties will depend on the effective use of advanced drilling and completion techniques, the scope of our drilling program (which will be directly affected by the availability of capital), drilling and production costs, availability of drilling and completion services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, regulatory approval and geological and mechanical factors affecting recovery rates. Our estimates of unproved reserves, estimated ultimate recoveries per well, hydrocarbons in place and resource potential may change significantly as development of our oil and gas assets provides additional data. Risks Related to Our Equity Securities The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since it first became listed on a national securities exchange in August 2006, and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since it first became listed on a national securities exchange in August 2006. From August 30, 2006 to February 27, 2012, the trading price at the close of the market (initially the American Stock Exchange and currently the NYSE) of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.20 per share to a high of $8.57 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in oil and natural gas prices; • variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the level of our overall indebtedness; • future issuances of our common stock and related dilution to existing stockholders; and • the other risks and uncertainties described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. Volatility or depressed market prices of our common stock could make it difficult for our stockholders to resell shares of our common stock when they want or at attractive prices. The market for our common stock may not provide investors with sufficient liquidity or a market-based valuation of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol “MHR”. On February 27, 2012, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NYSE was $6.94 per share. The present volume of trading in our common stock may not always provide investors sufficient liquidity in the event they wish to sell large blocks of common stock. There can be no assurance that an active market for our common stock will be available for trading in large volumes. In addition, the stock market in general, and early stage public companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. If we are unable to further develop an active market for our common stock, our stockholders may not be able to sell our common stock at prices they consider to be fair or at times that are convenient for them, or at all. 40 Table of Contents We will likely issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. In the future we may issue additional securities up to our total authorized and unissued amounts, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. As of February 27, 2012, there were 130,565,699 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, 4,000,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock issued and outstanding and 2,076,556 shares of our Series D Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued from the time to time. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with hiring personnel, future acquisitions or future private placements of our securities for capital-raising purposes or for other business purposes. Additionally, we are engaged in the issuance and sale of our common stock and Series D Preferred Stock from time to time through sales agents pursuant to “at the market” (ATM) sales agreements between us and the sales agents. Sales of shares of our common stock and Series D Preferred Stock, if any, by the sales agents will be made in privately negotiated transactions or in any method permitted by law deemed to be an ATM offering as defined in Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, at negotiated prices, at prices prevailing at the time of sale or at prices related to such prevailing market prices, including sales made directly on the NYSE or NYSE Amex or sales made through a market maker other than on an exchange. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our executive officers, who collectively beneficially owned approximately 8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 27, 2012. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us and changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; • the requirement for advance notice of director nominations to our board of directors and for proposing other matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • requiring that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman, by a majority of our board of directors, by our chief executive officer or by our president; and • allowing our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, including vacancies resulting from removal or enlargement of the board of directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. As of February 27, 2012, our board of directors and executive officers collectively beneficially owned approximately 8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Although this is not a majority of our 41 Table of Contents outstanding common stock, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law, and the concentrated ownership of our common stock by our directors and executive officers, could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our credit facilities limit the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment, which may not occur. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue additional preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our assets are subject to liquidation preferences in favor of the holders of our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, which will impact the rights of holders of our common stock if we liquidate. As of February 27, 2012, we have issued and sold an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock and 2,076,556 shares of our Series D Preferred Stock. Under the certificates of designations of the Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, if we liquidate, holders of our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock are entitled to receive the repayment of their original investment, together with any accrued but unpaid dividends, before any payment is made to holders of our common stock. Our outstanding warrants, which are exercisable for shares of our common stock, may be exercised, which would dilute our existing common stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding warrants that have an exercise price of $2.50 and a final maturity of November 2012 exercisable for an aggregate of 134,177 shares of our common stock; outstanding warrants that have an exercise price of $10.50, a final maturity of October 2013 and can be redeemed by the Company at any time prior to their maturity for $0.001 per warrant share exercisable for an aggregate of 13,253,267 shares of our common stock; outstanding warrants that have an exercise price of $15.13 and a final maturity of February 2014 exercisable for an aggregate of 97,780 shares of our common stock; and outstanding warrants that have an exercise price of $19.04 and a final maturity of November 2014 exercisable for an aggregate of 40,608 shares of our common stock. Any such exercise will be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 42 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in the public markets and the issuance of shares of common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in future acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or by other parties in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of such shares in the public market could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common stock or securities convertible into, or exercisable for, shares of common stock. In addition, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock and securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in furtherance of our acquisitions and development of assets or businesses. If we use our shares for this purpose, the issuances could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock, depending on market conditions at the time of such an event, the price we pay, the value of the assets or business acquired and our success in exploiting the properties or integrating the businesses we acquire and other factors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 