Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following factors could harm our business and future results of operations. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Risks related to our organization and structure Our former Vice Chairman and President and Chief Development Officer has sued us for, among other things, breaching his employment agreement. Steven A. Grigg, our former Vice Chairman and President and Chief Development Officer, has filed a lawsuit against us for, among other things, breaching his employment agreement. His lawsuit seeks, among various equitable remedies, claims for money damages. We have filed an answer denying and asserting defenses to all of Mr. Grigg’s claims, and also asserted counterclaims for money damages against Mr. Grigg. This lawsuit (i) is likely to cause the Company to incur significant legal and other costs and expenses, (ii) could divert the Company’s management’s time and attention away from the operation of its business, or (iii) require us to pay damages, any or all of which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity, operating results or future growth prospects. Messrs. Kramer and Grigg have threatened to sue us in connection with the Audit Committee’s independent investigation of the City Center Project in West Palm Beach, Florida. Legal counsel to Messrs. Richard Kramer and Grigg, in separate communications, have threatened litigation due to certain actions taken by our Audit Committee and Board of Trustees, including actions taken in connection with the Audit Committee’s independent investigation of the City Center project in West Palm Beach, Florida. In addition, as a result of the independent investigation, the Audit Committee recommended certain actions, including that we seek to resolve certain matters with Messrs. Richard Kramer and Grigg, including their continued service as Chairman and trustee of our Board of Trustees, respectively, and as members of our Board of Trustees. The final resolution of these matters could also result in litigation. On March 6, 2007, Mr. Richard Kramer filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland Southern Division, in which he seeks advancement for legal fees incurred by him purportedly in connection with the independent counsel’s investigation, as well as those fees incurred in filing and prosecuting this lawsuit. We believe that this lawsuit is without merit and intend to defend the action vigorously. Messrs. Richard Kramer and Grigg have asserted that a change of control has occurred. Any litigation against Messrs. Richard Kramer and/or Grigg is likely to cause us to incur significant legal and other costs and expenses, could delay or terminate our ability to exercise our options on Republic Square I, Republic Square II and/or Portals III or enforce the other related party agreements with entities controlled by Messrs. Richard Kramer and Grigg and could divert our management’s time and attention away from the 8 operation of our business, require us to pay damages or otherwise restrict our activities, any or all which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity, operating results and future growth prospects. Further, depending upon the facts and circumstances of any such claim, the company may be required to indemnify either or both of Messrs. Kramer and Grigg for their legal costs. If our Board of Trustees and management are unable to convey an appropriate “tone at the top,” our ability to maintain effective internal controls and procedures or manage our operations effectively may be adversely impacted. The Audit Committee’s independent investigation of matters arising from our involvement in the West Palm Beach City Center Project highlighted past conduct by certain members of our Board of Trustees and former members of our management that implicated certain “tone at the top” considerations. Any failure by our Board of Trustees or management to convey an appropriate “tone at the top” or otherwise adhere to the highest levels of ethical behavior may adversely impact our ability to maintain effective internal controls and procedures or manage our operations effectively. Messrs. Kramer, Grigg, Keller and Siegel, and their affiliates, own approximately 7.3%, 1.3%, 1.1% and 2.4%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares and partnership units of our Operating Partnership on a fully-diluted basis and have the ability to exercise significant control over our operations and any matter presented to our shareholders. At December 31, 2006, Richard L. Kramer,, Steven A. Grigg, Mark R. Keller, and Gary R. Siegel, and their affiliates, owned approximately 7.3%, 1.3%, 1.1% and 2.4%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares and partnership units of our Operating Partnership on a fully-diluted basis. Consequently, these persons and entities may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted for shareholder action, including the election of our Board of Trustees and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers and the determination of our day-to-day business decisions and management policies. As a result, these individuals and their affiliates, have substantial influence over us and could exercise their influence in a manner that conflicts with your interests. Messrs. Kramer and Grigg have substantial outside business interests, including interests in Portals Development Associates Limited Partnership and Republic Properties Corporation, rights to continued management and development fee income in connection with The Portals Properties and ownership interests in the owner and lessor of certain of our office space, which give rise to various conflicts of interest with us and could harm our business. Messrs. Kramer and Grigg have outside business interests, including ownership interests in PDA, an entity which has substantial ownership interests in The Portals Properties. In particular, Messrs. Kramer and Grigg have an approximate 6.0% and 5.8% indirect ownership interest in Portals I and II, respectively. Additionally, Republic Properties Corporation, a private real estate development and management company controlled by Messrs. Kramer and Grigg, and Republic Land Development LLC, a private real estate development company controlled by Mr. Kramer, are each engaged in the development of properties, both inside and outside of Greater Washington, D.C., that were not contributed to us as part of the formation transactions. Mr. Kramer and his family also have substantial interests in entities which own extensive amounts of non-office real estate in Greater Washington, D.C. Although we entered into non-competition agreements with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg, each of them are permitted to pursue specified business interests in Greater Washington, D.C. that may hinder their ability to spend adequate time on our business. In particular, Messrs. Kramer’s and Grigg’s non-competition agreements permit each of them to continue to provide certain services in connection with their positions as general partners of PDA and owners of Republic Properties Corporation and to hold interests in certain entities that provide real estate services in Greater Washington, D.C. As part of his lawsuit with respect to his former employment as our President and Chief Development Officer, Mr. Grigg has sued to void his non-competition agreement. If his non-competition agreement is voided, he would be able to compete directly against us, which could adversely impact our future operations. 9 Additionally, we have entered into the following agreements with entities affiliated with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg: • a development services agreement with respect to Republic Square I in which we receive a development fee; • a management services agreement with respect to Republic Square I and Republic Square II, when completed, in which we receive a fee equal to 1% of the gross revenues of each property and a payment to cover the costs of the corporate and property labor and overhead for providing these services; • a management services agreement with respect to The Portals I and II in which we receive a fee equal to 1% of the gross revenues of each property and a payment to cover the cost of the corporate and property labor and overhead for providing these services; • a development services agreement with respect to The Portals III in which we receive a fee equal to 3% of the remaining development costs; • a management services agreement with respect to The Portals III, (and Portals IV and V, when completed), in which we receive a fee equal to 1% of the gross revenues of each property and a payment to cover the cost of the corporate and property labor and overhead for providing these services; • a development services agreement for The Portals IV and V in which we receive a fee equal to 3% of the development costs; and • a services agreement in which we provide, on an outsource basis, various management, development and administrative services to certain properties in which Messrs. Kramer and Grigg have direct or indirect interests in which we receive an annual fee of approximately $1.1 million. Prior to January, 2007, our headquarters were located at Portals I. We continue to have a lease for 1,770 square feet of office space at The Portals I. This lease requires monthly payments of $6,837 and expired on December 15, 2006 but contains three six-month extension options. We are currently occupying this space under the first six-month extension. Agreements with Republic Properties Corporation and Messrs. Kramer and Grigg were in place at the IPO and were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and were not approved by our independent trustees or independent trustee nominees at the time of the IPO. As a result, we may not receive the fair market value for these services that we otherwise could have obtained from an unrelated third party. Messrs. Kramer’s and Grigg’s personal interest in PDA and Republic Properties Corporation and Mr. Kramer’s personal interest in Republic Land could conflict with your interests as our shareholders with respect to business decisions affecting us, which could harm our business. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of the terms of our agreements with members of our senior management and trustees and their affiliated entities because of our dependence on them as well as conflicts of interest that exist. As discussed above, we have entered into various agreements with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and their affiliated entities, including option, non-competition, contribution and other related party arrangements. On December 29, 2006, we received a notice in connection with the Portals III and Republic Square I Development Agreements, the Portals I and II Management Agreements, and the PDA Asset Management Agreement, which articulated certain purported fee and service level disputes under these agreements. Additionally, the owner of Portals I has initiated an eviction proceeding to evict us from our former headquarters. The trial is scheduled to take place in the DC Superior Court on April 12, 2007. Because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and because of the conflicts of interest that exist with them, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements, including the eventual resolution of the purported fee and service level disputes described above. 10 Additionally, each of Mr. Keller, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Siegel, our Chief Operating Officer and General Counsel, and Mr. Green, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is a party to an employment agreement with us. These agreements were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with members of our senior management and because of the conflicts of interest that exist with them. Our business and growth strategies could be harmed if key personnel with well-established ties to the Greater Washington, D.C. real estate market terminate their employment with us. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, and the other members of our senior management team who have extensive market knowledge and long-standing business relationships in Greater Washington, D.C. Although we have an employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, there is no guarantee that he will remain employed by us. If any of our senior management team, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, left our company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. An event of default occurs under our Credit Facility if our current Chief Executive Officer leaves our company and an experienced successor is not approved by the lenders under the Credit Facility within six months. Our employment agreements with each of Messrs. Keller, Siegel and Green provide benefits in the event of a change in control of our company or if the employment agreement is not renewed, which could deter a change in control that could be beneficial to our shareholders. We entered into separate employment agreements that provide each of Messrs. Keller, Siegel and Green with various severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances following a change in control of our company or if such individual resigns for “good reason”, as defined in the employment agreement. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of our company and thereby prevent or deter a change in control of the company that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the interests of our shareholders. Our Board of Trustees may change our investment and operational policies and practices and enter into new lines of business without a vote of our shareholders, which limits our shareholders’ control of our policies and practices and may subject us to different risks. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth and debt or equity capitalization are determined by our Board of Trustees. Although we have no present intention to do so, we may change these and other policies from time to time or enter into new lines of business, at any time, without the consent of our shareholders. Accordingly, our shareholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. These changes could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this Annual Report. A change in our investment strategy or our entry into new lines of business may increase our exposure to other risks or real estate market fluctuations. Our Board of Trustees has the power to issue additional shares in a manner that may not be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our organizational documents authorize our Board of Trustees to issue additional authorized but unissued preferred or common shares and to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without shareholder approval. In addition, our Board of Trustees may increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares or the number of our shares of any class or series and may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred or common shares and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. 11 The rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a trustee or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our organizational documents eliminate our trustees’ and officers’ liability to us and our shareholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may discourage a takeover of us and depress our common share price. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change of our management. These provisions include: • Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter provides that trustees may only be removed for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees even if the remaining trustees do not constitute a quorum. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees. • There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability in our Declaration of Trust. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To assist us with qualifying as a REIT under this test, subject to some exceptions, our Declaration of Trust prohibits any shareholder from owning, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% of the value or number of our outstanding shares of any class or series. Our Board of Trustees may exempt a person from the 9.8% ownership limit if our Board of Trustees determines, in its sole discretion, that exceeding the 9.8% ownership limit as to any proposed transferee would not jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. This restriction may: • discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in management or control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders; or • compel a shareholder who had acquired more than 9.8% of shares of any class or series to dispose of the additional shares of such class or series and, as a result, to forfeit the benefits of owning the additional shares. • Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws permit our Board of Trustees to issue preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws permit our Board of Trustees to issue up to 40,000,000 preferred shares, having those preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our Board of Trustees. Thus, our Board of Trustees could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. • Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws contain other provisions which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or the removal of existing management and, as a result, could prevent our shareholders from being paid a premium for their common shares over the then- 12 prevailing market prices. These provisions include advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and the absence of cumulative voting rights. • Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares. We have opted out of these provisions of Maryland law. However, our Board of Trustees may opt to make these provisions applicable to us at any time. These provisions include: • business combination moratorium/fair price provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested shareholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes stringent fair price and super-majority shareholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • control share provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of control shares from a party other than the issuer) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares, and are subject to redemption in certain circumstances. We may have assumed unknown liabilities in connection with the Formation Transactions, which could harm our financial condition. As part of the formation transactions, we, through our Operating Partnership, received a contribution of interests in certain assets subject to existing liabilities, some of which may have been unknown at the time the IPO was consummated. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for investigation or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to the IPO (that had not been asserted or threatened prior to the IPO), tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Our recourse with respect to such liabilities may be limited. Any unknown liabilities which we assumed in connection with the formation transactions could harm our financial condition. We have fiduciary duties as general partner to our Operating Partnership that may result in conflicts of interests in representing our shareholders’ interests. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other. Our trustees and officers have duties to our company and our shareholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we have fiduciary duties, as a general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to the limited partners under Delaware law in connection with the management of our Operating Partnership. Our duties as a general partner to our Operating Partnership and its partners may come into conflict with the duties of our trustees and officers to our company and our shareholders. The partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership provides that, in the event of a conflict of interest between our shareholders and the limited partners of our Operating Partnership, we will endeavor in good faith to resolve the conflict in a manner not adverse to either our shareholders or the limited partners or our Operating Partnership, and, if we, in our sole discretion as general partner of the Operating Partnership, determine that a conflict cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our shareholders or the limited partners of our Operating Partnership, the conflict is resolved in favor of our shareholders. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its 13 limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. Additionally, our Operating Partnership’s partnership agreement expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, nor any of our trustees or officers is liable or accountable in damages to our Operating Partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our Operating Partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, provided that our Operating Partnership will not indemnify for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement, or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. Our ability to pay our estimated distributions in 2007 depends upon our actual operating results. We may have to borrow funds under our line of credit to pay a portion of this distribution, which could slow our growth and depress the price of our common shares. We were unable to pay our 2006 distributions to shareholders out of cash available for distribution to our common shareholders. Unless our operating cash flow increases through increased leasing at our Presidents Park properties or otherwise, we will be required to continue to fund distributions from borrowings under our line of credit, from the disposition of properties or to further reduce such distributions. Any borrowing under our line of credit to fund distributions would reduce the amount of funds available under this line of credit for other purposes, such as potential acquisitions, capital improvements or development activities. If we need to borrow funds or dispose of properties to meet our shareholder distributions or if we further reduce the amount of such distributions, our share price may be adversely affected. 14 Risks related to our business and properties Our portfolio of properties, together with our three option properties, are all located in Greater Washington, D.C. and any downturn in the area’s economy may negatively affect our operating results. All of our properties and option properties are located in Greater Washington, D.C. As a result of this geographic concentration, we are exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically-diverse portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2006, 12 of our 13 properties are located in Northern Virginia, a real estate market which we believe has only recently emerged from a period of higher vacancy and lower rental rates, as compared to historical rates. Greater Washington, D.C., and more specifically, Northern Virginia, is distinguished by a high concentration of professional service firms, technology and telecommunications companies, federal and local government agencies and various trade groups and associations. Adverse economic developments affecting one or more of these groups, including decreased procurement spending by the U.S. government, outsourcing, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, businesses relocations, changing demographics, acts of terrorism, infrastructure quality, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs associated with government regulations or increased regulation, and other factors, including the potential for decreased U.S. government leasing in Greater Washington, D.C. as a result of the Department of Defense’s Base Realignment and Closure initiative, may significantly affect the occupancy, rental rates and value of our properties, which may negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of significant tenants and a payment delinquency, bankruptcy, insolvency or departure of one or more of these tenants could adversely affect the income produced by our properties, which may harm our operating performance. We are dependent on a limited number of significant tenants at our properties. Our 10 largest tenants represented approximately 58.2% of our total annualized rent for all leases in which tenants were in occupancy as of December 31, 2006. The US Government comprised over 21% of our portfolio and the Department of Justice is our largest tenant, comprising 10.4% of our portfolio. The bankruptcy, insolvency or departure of one or more of our tenants may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If a tenant defaults on a lease with us, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. A bankruptcy court, however, could authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid rent would be subject to a statutory limit that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. Under any circumstances, it is unlikely that a bankrupt tenant will pay, in full, amounts owed to us under a lease. The loss of rental payments from tenants and the costs of re-leasing may adversely affect our cash flows and operating results, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If one or more of our tenants with early termination rights terminates its lease with us and we are unable to secure a replacement tenant on at least as favorable terms, our cash flows and operating results would be adversely impacted. Several of our tenants lease space from us under leases that afford these tenants the right to terminate those leases, in whole or in part, prior to the scheduled expiration of the leases. These tenants lease an aggregate of approximately 428,000 net rentable square feet from us as of December 31, 2006. If one or more of our tenants with early termination rights terminates its lease and we are unable to secure a replacement tenant on at least as favorable terms, our operating results, cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or meet our financial obligations would be adversely affected. In addition, in order to secure a replacement tenant, we may have to make significant payments in the form of tenant improvements or other capital expenditures earlier than would otherwise be the case. 15 We may be unable to renew existing leases or re-let space on terms similar to the existing leases, or at all, as leases expire, or we may expend significant capital in our efforts to re-let space, which may harm our operating performance. Leases representing approximately 3.9% of our net rentable square feet (or annualized rent of approximately $2.4 million) at our properties will expire before December 31, 2007, assuming no exercise of early termination rights. We may not be able to renew leases with our existing tenants or we may be unable to re-let space to new tenants if our current tenants do not renew their leases. Even if our tenants renew their leases or we are able to re-let the space, the terms and other costs of renewal or re-letting, including the cost of required renovations, increased tenant improvement allowances, leasing commissions, declining rental rates and other potential concessions, may be less favorable or more costly than the terms of our current leases or than we anticipate and could require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to renew leases or re-let space in a reasonable time, or if rental rates decline or tenant improvement, leasing commissions or other costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our future growth is dependent on the acquisition of our three option properties and our growth may be harmed if our option agreements are terminated upon a change in control of our company, or otherwise, or our independent trustees do not approve an acquisition of one or more of the option properties. We have entered into agreements with entities affiliated with Messrs. Kramer, Grigg, and Keller granting us the option to acquire properties representing an estimated 1.1 million net rentable square feet of office space. The terms of these agreements allow us to purchase a property during a period beginning from the receipt of a certificate of occupancy and continuing until 60 days prior to the maturity (including any extensions) of any construction loans on the property. In addition, in the event we do not exercise our initial option on a property, and the property is not sold to a third party, we have a second option to purchase a property during the period beginning 180 days after the expiration of the initial option and continuing through the fourth anniversary of the receipt of the property’s certificate of occupancy. Portals III and Republic Square I received their certificates of occupancy in mid-2006. As the construction of Republic Square II has yet to break ground, we cannot assure you when Republic Square II will receive its certificate of occupancy, if at all. The development of Republic Square II depends upon the successful build out and lease-up of Republic Square I and any delays or difficulties encountered may delay the possible exercise of our options and therefore harm our growth. Our growth is dependent on our ability to acquire these three properties. At December 31, 2006, Republic Square I was 46% leased and 21% occupied. Portals III was 13% leased and no tenants had occupied their space. Another risk to the acquisition of the option properties is that the option agreements contain provisions that permit the property owner to terminate an option agreement if a change in control of our company occurs. The option agreements define “change of control” as follows: (a) Any person or entity has or acquires beneficial ownership of fifty (50%) percent or more of the combined voting power of the company’s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of trustees; provided, however, that in determining whether a change in control has occurred, voting securities that are held or acquired by (i) Messrs. Kramer, Grigg or Keller or any of their affiliates or (ii) an employee benefit plan maintained by the company or any of its affiliates shall not constitute a change in control. (b) Messrs. Kramer or Grigg cease to be trustees on the Company’s Board of Trustees for any reason other than (i) death or voluntary resignation, (ii) removal for cause in accordance with the Company’s Declaration of Trust, or (iii) resignation following a termination of employment for “Cause” as that term is defined by any applicable employment agreement. (c) The individuals who are members of our Board of Trustees as of the date of the IPO, or the Incumbent Board, cease for any reason to constitute more than fifty (50%) percent of our Board; provided, however, that any individual who becomes a trustee subsequent to the IPO, whose election, or 16 nomination for election by our shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board (or deemed to be such pursuant to this provision) shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board; and provided further, however, that any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of or in connection with an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than our Board shall not be considered a member of the Incumbent Board. (d) A consummation of a merger, consolidation or reorganization or similar event involving the Company, unless, following such business combination: (i) the persons or entities with beneficial ownership of the Company, immediately before such business combination, have beneficial ownership of more than fifty (50%) percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such business combination; (ii) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the initial agreement providing for such business combination constitute more than fifty (50%) percent of the members of the board of directors of the surviving company; and(iii) no person or entity, who immediately prior to such business combination had beneficial ownership of thirty (30%) percent or more of the then voting securities, has beneficial ownership of fifty (50%) percent or more of the then combined voting power of the surviving company’s then outstanding voting securities; (e) The disposition of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets to any person (other than the Company or any of its affiliates, or Messrs. Keller, Grigg and Kramer and their respective Affiliates) unless, (i) the person is Kramer, Grigg, Keller or any of their affiliates, or (ii) immediately following such disposition, the conditions set forth in paragraph (d)(i), (ii) and (iii) above will be satisfied with respect to the entity which acquires such assets; or (f) The occurrence of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company not in connection with any transaction described in paragraphs (d) and (e) above. Messrs. Richard Kramer and Grigg have asserted that a change of control has occurred. Any litigation against Messrs. Richard Kramer and/or Grigg is likely to cause us to incur significant legal and other costs and expenses, and could delay or terminate our ability to exercise our options on Republic Square I, Republic Square II and/or Portals III. Our ability to acquire these properties, therefore, is subject to several risks, including that Republic Square II is not ultimately developed, that the options are terminated upon a change in control, that one or more of the option properties is sold to a third party in the period beginning 60 days prior to the maturity of any construction debt or that our independent trustees do not approve our acquisition of one or more of the properties. The initial options for Portals III and Republic Square I expire sixty (60) days prior to the maturity date (including any extensions) of the construction loan or loans or refinanced construction loan or loans with respect to each of our option properties. The Republic Square I construction loans will mature in August 2007; therefore, the initial option term for Republic Square I expires on June 1, 2007. On March 7, 2007, the owner of Republic Square I notified us of its intent to begin marketing efforts to sell the property in the open market. We have the right to begin discussions with the owner with respect to purchasing the property prior to it being 85% occupied. The Republic Square I construction loans also may be extended to February 2008 provided, among other conditions, at least 50% of the project is leased and occupied, in which case, our initial option period would be extended. The Portals III construction loan will mature in July 2008 and may be extended to July 2009 provided, among other conditions, a rate cap is obtained for the extension period. The initial option for Republic Square II, which is currently an undeveloped parcel of land, will expire at the later of sixty (60) days prior to the construction loan maturity date or thirty-six (36) months from the date construction begins. Our purchase of any of these three properties could subject us to a number of additional risks, including our inability to meet expected occupancy and rent levels, if at all. In addition, any purchase by us of an option property may involve the issuance of OP units, which would have a dilutive impact on the holders of our common shares and OP units. In evaluating whether or not to acquire an option property, we may make certain 17 assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property and may underestimate the costs associated with achieving full occupancy of the newly-acquired property. Our operating flexibility and ability to sell any of the option properties that we may acquire may be economically prohibited by certain tax protection obligations. In connection with the option properties, we have agreed with the current property owners that if we exercise the option with respect to a property and dispose of an interest in that property in a taxable transaction within ten years of our exercise of the option to acquire that property, then we will indemnify the property owners and their direct and indirect owners for their tax liabilities attributable to any built-in gain that exists with respect to such property interest as of the time of the exercise of the option (as well as the tax liabilities incurred as a result of any such reimbursement payment). Although it may otherwise be in our shareholders’ best interest that we sell a property, it may be economically prohibitive for us to do so because of these obligations. Messrs. Kramer, Grigg, and Keller, and their affiliates, have substantial ownership interests in our three option properties and these interests may conflict with our shareholders’ interests. Messrs. Kramer, Grigg and Keller, and their affiliates, have substantial ownership interests in the three properties that we have options to acquire. Although any decisions regarding whether or not to purchase these properties in the future will be made by a vote of our independent trustees, we cannot assure you that we will not be adversely affected by conflicts arising from Messrs. Kramer, Grigg and Keller’s existing and ongoing economic interest in these properties. In particular, these conflicts could cause Messrs. Kramer, Grigg and Keller to divert their time and attention away from focusing on our business in an effort to enhance the value of the option properties for which they will receive direct and significant consideration upon exercise of our option. When providing fee-based development services, our right to receive fees for development services is typically subordinate to the rights of other creditors in connection with the construction of the property and as a result we may not be able to timely collect development fees, if at all, which could harm our operating results. Typically, our right to receive fees for development services is subordinate to the rights of third-party creditors providing construction loans for the project. For example, the development services agreement entered into between us and the owner of Republic Square I provided that our rights to receive development fees were subordinate to the rights and interests of the lender under a construction loan agreement. As a result of these types of subordination provisions, we may be unable to collect fees earned by us for the development and construction of a project in a timely fashion, if at all, if a default under the construction loans has occurred or the creditor providing the construction loans has otherwise not been repaid, which could harm our results of operations. If we lose our right to provide management or development services on an outsource basis for The Portals Properties, our cash flows and operating results will be negatively impacted. As part of the formation transactions, we entered into agreements with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation, each general partners of PDA, pursuant to which we provide, on an outsource basis, management and development services for The Portals Properties in exchange for receiving a portion of the management or development fee, as the case may be, that is payable to Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation with respect to each property. Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation, as general partners of PDA, together with another unaffiliated general partner of PDA, currently receive a fee for the management of The Portals I and II properties and a development fee for The Portals III. Because our agreements to provide management and development services to The Portals Properties are with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation and not with the entities that own The Portals Properties, we are not in privity of contract with these entities and do not have a direct right to enforce our agreements with these entities. Accordingly, if PDA’s right to provide these services to 18 The Portals Properties is terminated for any reason (whether or not we are at fault), we would lose our right to provide those management and/or development services to one or more of the Portals Properties, which would negatively impact our cash flows and operating results. In December 2006 we received a notice of an alleged service level and fee dispute under the agreements with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation. Each of the Portals I and II Management Agreements, and the PDA Asset Management Agreement has a one-year term expiring December 15 of each year, with automatic renewal unless either party gives notice 90 days prior to December 15 of such year. If our current agreements with Messrs. Kramer and Grigg and Republic Properties Corporation to provide management and development services for The Portals Properties are terminated for any reason, including as a result of the alleged service level and fee dispute, or if either party gives notice of non-renewal in September 2007, our cash flows and operating results would be negatively impacted. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions of office and office-oriented mixed-use properties meeting our criteria, which may impede our growth and negatively impact the price of our common shares. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to acquire office and office-oriented mixed-use properties on favorable terms may be constrained by competition from other investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded REITs and institutional investors. Competition from these other potential acquirers may result in increased bidding, which may ultimately increase the price we must pay for a property or may result in us being unable to acquire a property at all. For example, we have acquired the majority of our properties in privately negotiated transactions outside of a competitive bidding process. If we are unable to continue to attract, negotiate and consummate these types of private transactions, we may be forced to expend substantial resources in a competitive bidding process. Failure to identify or consummate suitable acquisitions could cause us to grow at a slower rate than expected, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. If we are not successful in efficiently integrating and operating the properties we acquire, management’s attention may be diverted away from our day-to-day operations and we may experience other disruptions which could harm our results of operations. We will be required to integrate properties we acquire into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, if, for example, we do not realize anticipated operational or geographical synergies, which may cause disruptions in our operations or may divert management’s attention away from our day-to-day operations, which could harm our results of operations. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liabilities which could harm our growth and future operations. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities, such as liabilities to the government, tenants, third-party creditors, vendors or other persons, liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by parties entitled to be indemnified by the former owners of the properties. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle any such claim, which could harm our growth and future operations and result in a lowering of the price of our common shares. 19 We face significant competition, which may impede our ability to retain tenants or re-let space when existing tenants vacate. We face significant competition for tenants in our properties from owners and operators of office and office-oriented mixed-use properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in Greater Washington, D.C. These competitors may possess flexibility in designing space to meet prospective tenants’ needs or may be more willing to make space available to prospective tenants at lower prices than comparable spaces in our properties, which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge these tenants. Our operating results will be harmed if we are unable to fully lease-up vacant space at properties which were underperforming at the time we acquired them. As part of our acquisition strategy, we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, properties, such as Presidents Park and Republic Park 8, which we believe will result in favorable risk-adjusted returns on our investment but that have high vacancy rates upon acquisition. For example, Presidents Park 2 was 23% occupied on the acquisition date of December 2004, and Republic Park 8 was 58% occupied at its acquisition in September 2006. Properties acquired with significant vacancy may impede our operating performance and may take longer to achieve our anticipated investment return, if at all. Costs associated with the lease-up of a recently-acquired property may be higher than anticipated and, if achieved, may take longer to reach than we expect. To the extent our costs are higher than anticipated or we fail to lease these properties on favorable terms, or at all, we may not be able to lease-up the property, which may harm our operating results. Future terrorist attacks in Greater Washington, D.C. could significantly impact the demand for, and value of, our properties. All of our properties and properties over which we have an option to acquire are located in Greater Washington, D.C., which has, in recent years, been a high risk geographical area for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Future terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war would severally impact the demand for, and value of, our properties. Terrorist attacks in and around Greater Washington, D.C. could also directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against such acts. A decrease in demand could make it difficult to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. To the extent that any future terrorist attacks otherwise disrupt our tenants’ businesses, it may impair their ability to make timely payments under their existing leases with us which would harm our operating results. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow. We carry insurance coverage on our properties of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties and appropriate given the relative risk of loss and the cost of the coverage. Some risks to our properties, such as losses due to earthquakes or floods, are insured subject to policy limits which may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In response to the uncertainty in the insurance market following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”) was enacted in November 2002 to mandate that insurance carriers offer insurance covering physical damage from terrorist incidents certified by the U.S. government as foreign terrorist acts. Under TRIA, the U.S. government shares in the risk of loss associated with certain future terrorist acts. TRIA was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2005; however, on December 22, 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, or the Extension Act, was enacted, which extended 20 the duration of TRIA until December 31, 2007. The Extension Act expanded the private sector’s role and reduced the amount of coverage that the U.S. government is required to provide for insured losses under the program. While the underlying structure of TRIA was left intact, the Extension Act, among other things, increased the current insurer deductible from 15% of direct earned premiums to 17.5% for 2006 and to 20% of such premiums in 2007. For losses in excess of the deductible, the U.S. government still reimburses 90% of the insurer’s loss, but the amount of U.S. government reimbursement decreases to 85% of the insurer’s loss in 2007. As a result, unless we obtain separate coverage for events that do not meet the threshold, such events would not be covered. Additionally, the Extension Act may subsequently result in increased premiums charged by insurance carriers for terrorism insurance. Regardless, terrorist acts could result in property damage in excess of our coverage, which could result in significant losses to us due to the loss of capital invested in the property, the loss of revenues from the impacted property and the capital that would have to be invested in that property. Any such circumstance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. If in the future we elect to make joint venture investments, we could be adversely affected by a lack of sole decision-making authority, reliance on joint venture partners’ financial condition and any disputes that might arise between us and our joint venture partners. We may invest in the future with third parties through joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, joint venture or other entity. In such event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, joint venture or other entity. Investments in joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Likewise, partners may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, because neither we nor our partner would have full control over the joint venture or other entity. Disputes between us and partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our partners. Our investment in property development may be more costly and earn less revenues than anticipated. We recently purchased 1129 20th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. in order to substantially renovate the buildling. We also purchased Republic Park 8 with the intent of pursuing additional zoning rights to develop a new office building. We intend to continue to look for other opportunities to substantially renovate or develop office properties. Our current and future development and construction activities may be exposed to the following risks: • Our actual construction costs for a development project may exceed our original budget due to increases in interest rates, and costs of materials, labor, leasing commissions or other costs, which could make completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project; • we may be unable to complete construction and/or leasing of a property on schedule; and. • we may lease developed properties at rental rates that are lower than the rates projected at the time we decide to undertake the development. 21 Risks related to our debt financing Required payments of principal and interest on our loan obligations may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. Required repayments of debt and related interest can adversely affect our operating performance. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $350.1 million of outstanding indebtedness, 100% of which was secured. Our ability to cover the required monthly interest payments will depend on a number of factors, including our operating performance, the level of interest rates and cash flow, as well as other factors that we may have failed to anticipate or that are beyond our control. Since we anticipate that our internally-generated cash will be adequate to repay only a portion of our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt through proceeds of refinancings and/or equity offerings. Any offering of our equity securities to repay a portion of our indebtedness could result in the dilution of our shareholders. The amount of our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to repay debt through refinancing. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us and which might adversely affect cash available for distributions to our shareholders. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which could adversely affect our operating results. We also intend to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate. We may, in some instances, borrow new funds to acquire properties. In addition, we may incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by some or all of the properties we acquire. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to shareholders as distributions at least 90% of our annual taxable income (excluding net capital gains) and to avoid corporate level tax on our net taxable income (including net capital gains), or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our substantial debt may harm our business and operating results, by: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our net operating income to pay interest, which reduces the amount available for distributions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions; and • limiting our cash flow or ability to borrow more money for operations, capital expenditures or to finance acquisitions in the future. Our existing mortgage indebtedness contains, and any future mortgage indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our operating and acquisition activities. Our existing mortgage indebtedness contains, and any future mortgage indebtedness may contain, certain covenants that apply to the property financed and our subsidiary that owns the property financed, which, among other things, restrict our ability to sell, without the consent of the applicable lender, the property financed. In addition, such covenants may also restrict our ability to engage in mergers or consolidations that result in a change in control of us, without the consent of the applicable lender. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in business initiatives that may be in our best interest. In addition, failure to meet the covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable mortgage indebtedness, which could result in the acceleration of the applicable indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 22 Debt incurred under our KeyBank line of credit bears interest at a variable rate, which increases our exposure to rising interest rates and could increase our interest expense, causing an adverse effect to our cash flows and results of operations. Advances under our line of credit bear interest at a variable rate. We may borrow additional money with variable interest rates in the future. Although we may enter into hedging agreements to limit our exposure to rising interest rates as we determine to be appropriate and cost effective, increases in interest rates, or the loss of the benefits of hedging agreements, would increase our interest expense and consequently could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had $5.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding. We have not entered into any hedging agreements. The financial and other covenants that are included in our $150 million senior secured revolving credit facility place limitations on our ability to take certain actions in respect of our business and could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The KeyBank credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions and other covenants that limit our ability to: • incur indebtedness; • sell certain of our assets; • engage in mergers and consolidations; • acquire businesses or assets; • make capital expenditures and investments; • use the proceeds of debt issuances, equity issuances and disposals except to repay outstanding indebtedness under these facilities; and • pay distributions or redeem or repurchase common shares. Additionally, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios and performance covenants. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to engage in transactions that would be otherwise in our best interests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in a default under our credit facility and may cause the lenders under the credit facility to accelerate the timing of the repayment of the underlying indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance that debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our ability to draw on our credit facility or incur other debt in the future could be restricted by certain covenants. Following the acquisition of 1129 20th Street in February 2007, we may approach the limit of a number of covenants under our credit facility. Our leverage ratio at December 31, 2006, after adjusting for the acquisition of 1129 20th Street, was 67.2%. Our credit facility restricts our leverage ratio to no more than 70%. Our fixed charge coverage ratio at December 31, 2006 was 1.73x. Our credit facility restricts our fixed charge coverage ratio to no less than 1.45x. At December 31, 2006, after adjusting for the February 2007 acquisition of 1129 20th Street we had approximately $17.1 million of capacity available to be drawn under our credit facility. We expect our leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, and other covenants, together with the amount of available capacity to be drawn to benefit from the lease we signed with XO Communications when the lease commences in December 2007. Effective March 31, 2007, our credit facility will require the physical occupancy of our Presidents Park properties to meet or exceed 80% of the net rentable area of the properties. We are in the process of requesting a waiver of this covenant from our lenders under the credit facility. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, the borrowings under the credit facility may become due and payable. If the leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio, or any of the other covenants in our credit facility deteriorate, it could impact our business and operations, including our ability to incur additional debt, draw on 23 our credit facility, which is our primary source of short term liquidity, pay distributions, acquire leveraged properties or invest in properties through joint ventures. We expect to continue to work with our lenders to ensure that we remain in compliance with our covenants. Additionally, any default under the credit facility, or agreements governing our other existing or future indebtedness, is likely to lead to an acceleration of indebtedness under any other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our credit facility is accelerated as a result of a default, we are unlikely to have sufficient assets to repay that debt, or other indebtedness then outstanding. We could become more leveraged in the future because our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio at any time. If we become more leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness or to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to maintain our REIT qualification, and could harm our financial condition. We depend on external sources of capital that are outside of our control and may not be available to us, which could adversely affect our ability to develop or acquire properties, satisfy our debt obligations or make distributions to shareholders. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute as a dividend to our shareholders each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In order to eliminate U.S. federal income tax, we are required to distribute annually as a dividend 100% of our taxable income, including capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and development opportunities, with income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are unable to obtain third-party sources of capital, we may not be able to acquire properties or seek development projects when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt obligations or make distributions to shareholders that would permit us to qualify as a REIT and avoid paying tax on our taxable income. Risks related to the real estate industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many forces, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. 24 Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) may result in unanticipated expenses and may affect our results of operations. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to achieve compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, per share trading price of our common shares and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with operating our properties may result in unanticipated expenses and may affect our results of operations. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous substances. In addition, we are subject to federal, state and local requirements with respect to underground storage tanks, management of hazardous materials, asbestos and mold. The cost of complying with these requirements, and the clean up of any environmental contamination, including the abatement of any asbestos and mold, can be costly. The presence of, or failure to clean up or abate, contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a property or to borrow using a property as collateral or could prove so costly as to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, which could result in our inability to make distributions to our shareholders and result in a decline in the value of our common shares. Risks related to qualification and operation as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to U.S. federal income tax and would subject us and our shareholders to other adverse consequences. We believe that we are organized and have operated, and intend to operate, in such a manner so as to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our organization and operation will enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, new laws, regulations, interpretations, or court decisions subsequent to our organization may change the U.S. federal income tax laws or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of our qualification and taxation as a REIT. As a result, no assurance can be provided that we will continue to qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the U.S. federal income tax laws with respect to our qualification and taxation as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of our qualification and taxation as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed to take a deduction for dividends paid to our shareholders in computing our taxable income, and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to statutory relief, we would not be eligible to elect to qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which our REIT qualification is lost. Any determination that we do not qualify as a REIT would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common shares materially. The additional tax liability to us for the year or years in which we did not qualify would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt 25 service or distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to pay any dividend to our shareholders and dividends we pay to our shareholders would be taxable as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. In addition, if we failed to qualify as a REIT, non-U.S. shareholders that otherwise might not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the sale of our shares might be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to any gain, on a net basis, in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. shareholder if the non-U.S. shareholder owns 5% or more of a class of our shares. Failure to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT could subject our non-U.S. shareholders to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We are a domestically-controlled REIT if, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of our shares is held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. shareholders. However, because our shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we are in fact a domestically-controlled REIT, or that we will be a domestically-controlled REIT in the future. As a result of the formation transactions in which we issued common shares to non-U.S. persons, we estimate that at least 19% of our total common shares outstanding immediately following the completion of the IPO were owned by non-U.S. persons. If we fail to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT, our non-U.S. shareholders that otherwise would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain attributable to a sale of our common shares would be subject to taxation upon such a sale if either (a) the common shares were not considered to be regularly traded under applicable Treasury Regulations on an established securities market, such as The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, or (b) the selling non-U.S. shareholder owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% in value of the outstanding common shares being sold throughout the period specified by the Internal Revenue Code. If gain on the sale or exchange of our common shares was subject to taxation for these reasons, the non-U.S. shareholder would be subject to regular U.S. income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. shareholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals, and corporate non-U.S. shareholders may be subject to an additional branch profits tax. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal income tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must pay out to our shareholders as dividends at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding any net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute as a dividend less than 100% of our taxable income for the taxable year, we are subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out as dividends to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. Our only source of funds to make these dividends will come from distributions that we receive from our Operating Partnership. Accordingly, we may be required to borrow money or sell assets to pay dividends sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. If our Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our Operating Partnership is organized and is operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated that partner’s share of the operating partnership’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the Internal Revenue Service were successful in treating our Operating Partnership as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to U.S. federal corporate 26 income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. We are subject to some taxes even though we believe we qualify as a REIT. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are subject to some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will pay tax on certain types of income that we do not distribute. We will incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with our “taxable REIT subsidiary” that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. A taxable REIT subsidiary is a corporation which is owned, directly or indirectly, by us and which, together with us, makes an election to be treated as our taxable REIT subsidiary. Republic Property TRS, LLC is our sole taxable REIT subsidiary. Thus, for example, to the extent that the interest paid by Republic Property TRS, LLC to us exceeds an arm’s-length interest amount, we may be subject to the excise tax. We believe that all transactions between us and our taxable REIT subsidiary are conducted on an arm’s-length basis and, therefore, that we will not be subject to the excise tax. Although organized as a limited liability company, Republic Property TRS, LLC has elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes in order to qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Accordingly, Republic Property TRS, LLC is subject to U.S. federal income tax as a corporation on its taxable income, which consists of the revenues mainly derived from management and development of third-party properties. The after-tax net income of Republic Property TRS, LLC is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed. In addition, the District of Columbia imposes an unincorporated business income tax on the “District of Columbia taxable income” of partnerships doing business in the District of Columbia. Because one of our properties is located in the District of Columbia and we have option properties that are located within the District, we may be subject to this tax now or in the future. Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent our shareholders from engaging in certain transfers of our common shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the U.S. federal income tax laws to include various kinds of entities) at any time during the last half of any taxable year, and may be owned by no less than 100 persons during 335 days in a full calendar year or a proportionate part of any partial year. To assist us in maintaining our REIT qualification, our Declaration of Trust contains a share ownership limit. Generally, shares of any class or series owned by related owners are added together for purposes of the share ownership limits, and any shares owned by related owners is added together for purposes of the share ownership limits. Our Declaration of Trust provides that no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.8% of the value or the number of shares of any class or series, unless our Board of Trustees waives this limitation. These ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of our company by a third party without our Board of Trustees’ approval, even if our shareholders believe the change in control is in their interest. In addition, if anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate any share ownership limit, or prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the U.S. federal income tax laws, we will consider the transfer to be null and void from the outset, and the intended transferee of those shares is deemed never to have owned the shares or those shares instead are transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and are either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the share ownership limit. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the share ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in our Declaration of Trust bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of our shares falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. 27 Our ability to maintain distributions to our shareholders is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvements requirements. As a REIT, we are required to distribute as a dividend at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to our shareholders. In the event of future downturns in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our properties, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our shareholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our Board of Trustees, which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations and debt covenants, and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash in order to pay distributions. Increases in our property taxes would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Each of our properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes on our properties may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected. Changes in taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our common shares. The maximum marginal rate of tax payable by domestic noncorporate taxpayers on qualified dividends received from a regular “C” corporation under current law is 15 percent through 2010, as opposed to higher ordinary income rates. The reduced tax rate, however, does not apply to distributions paid to domestic noncorporate taxpayers by a REIT on its shares, except for certain limited amounts. Although the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its shareholders generally remain subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a regular “C” corporation that are distributed to its shareholders, net of corporate-level income tax, legislation that extends the application of the 15 percent rate to dividends paid after 2010 by “C” corporations could cause domestic noncorporate investors to view the stock of regular “C” corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT, because the dividends from regular “C” corporations would continue to be taxed at a lower rate while distributions from REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends) are generally taxed at the same rate as the individual’s other ordinary income. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. If we sell any of our properties, the IRS may determine that the sale is a disposition of an asset held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. Gain from this kind of sale generally will be subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire property for investment purposes, we do not believe that any future transfers or disposals of property will be treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether an asset is held “primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business” depends on the particular facts and circumstances of the sale. Although we will attempt to comply with the terms of the safe-harbor provisions in the Internal Revenue Code prescribing when asset sales will not be so characterized, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 