Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our securities is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Continued weakness in global economic condition or, in any of the industries in which our customers operate, or sustained uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Economic conditions in the United States and globally have deteriorated and the extent and timing of a full recovery, especially in the United States and Europe, is uncertain. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have also experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. Unemployment has risen while business and consumer confidence have declined and there are fears of a prolonged recession in the United States and Europe. Although we cannot predict the impacts, continued weakness in the United States or global economies could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example: • the demand for natural gas in the United States has declined and may remain at low levels or further decline if economic conditions remain weak and continue to negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our natural gas business; • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and/or development of our reserves; and • our commodity hedging arrangements could become ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in natural gas prices would significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas. The markets for these commodities are very volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. In the past we have used hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to market price volatility when we deemed it appropriate. If we choose not to engage in, or reduce our use of hedging arrangements in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas and oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements to a greater extent than we do. Prices for natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas; • the price of foreign imports; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users; • weather conditions; 19 Table of Contents • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Many of these factors may be beyond our control. Lower natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also limit our access to capital. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us in several ways including: • our cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production; and • access to other sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets and/or our ability to borrow, could be severely limited or unavailable. Additionally, lower natural gas prices may reduce the amount of natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change, or our exploration results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down as a non-cash charge to earnings the carrying value of our natural gas properties. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We face uncertainties in estimating proved recoverable gas reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected reserve quantities and a lower present value of our reserves. Natural gas reserves requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be incorrect. Over time, material changes to reserve estimates may be made, taking into account the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of our reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of gas we ultimately recover being different from reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on historical prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our gas and oil properties also will be affected by factors such as: • geological conditions; • changes in governmental regulations and taxation; • assumptions governing future prices; • the amount and timing of actual production; • future operating costs; and • capital costs of drilling new wells. 20 Table of Contents The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. In addition, if natural gas prices decline by $0.10 per thousand cubic feet, then the pre-tax present value using a 10% discount rate of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 would decrease from $1.5 billion to $1.4 billion. The standardized Generally Accepted Accounting Principle measure associated with this decline of $0.10 per thousand cubic feet, would be approximately $0.8 billion. Unless we replace our natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Because total estimated proved reserves include our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2009, production is expected to decline even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed and the wells produce as expected. The rate of decline will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. Our exploration and development activities may not be commercially successful. The exploration for and production of gas involves numerous risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for CBM or other gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; • equipment failures or repairs; • fires or other accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in natural gas prices; • pipeline ruptures; and • unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, other field services and equipment. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, and our drilling success rates could decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in higher costs without any corresponding revenues. Our focus on new development projects in our operating areas and other unexplored areas increases the risks inherent in our gas and oil activities. We have little or no proved reserves in certain areas in Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Tennessee. These exploration, drilling and production activities will be subject to many risks, including the risk that CBM or other natural gas is not present in sufficient quantities in the coal seam or target strata, or that sufficient permeability does not exist for the gas to be produced economically. We have invested in property, and will continue to invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, that we believe will result in projects that will add value 21 Table of Contents over time. Drilling for CBM, other natural gas and oil may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. We cannot be certain that the wells we drill in these new areas will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investments. Our business depends on transportation facilities owned by others. Disruption of, capacity constraints in, or proximity to pipeline systems could limit sales of our gas. We transport our gas to market by utilizing pipelines owned by others. If pipelines do not exist near our producing wells, if pipeline capacity is limited or if pipeline capacity is unexpectedly disrupted, our gas sales could be limited, reducing our profitability. If we cannot access pipeline transportation, we may have to reduce our production of gas or vent our produced gas to the atmosphere because we do not have facilities to store excess inventory. If our sales are reduced because of transportation constraints, our revenues will be reduced, and our unit costs will also increase. If we cannot obtain transportation capacity and we do not have the ability to store gas, we may have to reduce production. If pipeline quality tariffs change, we might be required to install additional processing equipment which could increase our costs. The pipeline could curtail our flows until the gas delivered to their pipeline is in compliance. Increased industry activity may create shortages of field services, equipment and personnel, which may increase our costs and may limit our ability to drill and produce from our natural gas properties. The demand for well service providers, related equipment, and qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. These shortages may lead to escalating prices, the possibility of poor services, inefficient drilling operations, and personnel injuries. Such pressures will likely increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. In addition, the costs and delivery times of equipment and supplies are substantially greater in periods of peak demand. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, and we may experience shortages of, or material increases in the cost of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services in the future. Any such delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The gas industry is intensely competitive and we compete with companies from various regions of the United States and may compete with foreign companies for domestic sales, many of whom are larger and have greater financial, technological, human and other resources. If we are unable to compete, our company, our operating results and financial position may be adversely affected. For example, one of our competitive strengths is as a low-cost producer of gas. If our competitors can produce gas at a lower cost than us, it would effectively eliminate our competitive strength in that area. In addition, larger companies may be able to pay more to acquire new properties for future exploration, limiting our ability to replace gas we produce or to grow our production. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover new resources also depends on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate these transactions in a highly competitive environment. 22 Table of Contents Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business. From time to time we consider various acquisition opportunities. We could be subject to significant liabilities related to any completed acquisition. Generally, it is not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities prior to acquisition. We will not always inspect every well we acquire, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is performed. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are not able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our shale gas drilling and production operations require adequate sources of water to facilitate the fracturing process and the disposal of that water when it flows back to the well-bore, and our CBM gas drilling and production operations require the removal and disposal of water from the coal seams, from which we produce gas. If we are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. New environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. Coal seams, frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the gas to detach from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Further, we must remove the water that we use to fracture our shale gas wells when it flows back to the well-bore. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect our production and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect our profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of natural gas. Coalbed methane and other gas that we produce often contains impurities that must be removed, and the gas must be processed before it can be sold, which can adversely affect our operations and financial performance. A substantial amount of our gas needs to be processed in order to make it saleable to our intended customers. At times, the cost of processing this gas relative to the quantity of gas produced from a particular well, or group of wells, may outweigh the economic benefit of selling that gas. Our profitability may decrease due to the reduced production and sale of gas. 23 Table of Contents Government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, health and safety matters and others that govern our and CONSOL Energy’s businesses increase our costs and may restrict our operations. We and our principal stockholder, CONSOL Energy, are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment, health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining or drilling properties after mining or drilling is completed, control of surface subsidence from underground mining and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our and CONSOL Energy’s permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our respective costs of operations and competitive position. In addition, we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third party damage claims for personal injury, property damage, wrongful death, or exposure to hazardous substances, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental and health and safety laws. Moreover, given our relationship with CONSOL Energy, its compliance with these laws and regulations could impact our ability to effectively produce gas from our wells. Additionally, the gas industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation, which is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Any changes may affect, among other things, the pricing or marketing of gas production. State and local authorities regulate various aspects of gas drilling and production activities, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, market sharing and well site restoration. If we fail to comply with statutes and regulations, we may be subject to substantial penalties, which would decrease our profitability. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for drilling operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process and result in restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of gas may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Enactment of a severance tax in several states where we have operations, including Pennsylvania, on natural gas could adversely impact our results of existing operations and the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities in those states. As a result of a funding gap in the Pennsylvania state budget due to significant declines in anticipated tax revenues, the Pennsylvania governor has proposed to its legislature the adoption of a wellhead or severance tax on the production of natural gas in Pennsylvania. The amount of the proposed tax is 5 percent of the value of the natural gas at wellhead plus 4.7 cents per thousand cubic feet of natural gas severed. In Pennsylvania we have rights in significant acreage for coalbed methane and other natural gas extraction on which we have drilled and expect to continue to drill producing wells. In 2009, 17%, or 18.4 billion cubic feet, of our production was from Pennsylvania. In addition, a significant amount of our Marcellus shale play acreage is in Pennsylvania. We cannot predict whether Pennsylvania (or any other states) will adopt any such tax, nor if adopted the rate of tax. If states adopt such taxes, it could adversely impact our results of existing operations and the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities. 24 Table of Contents We may incur additional costs and delays to produce gas because we have to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to the gas estate. Some of the gas rights we believe we control are in areas where we have not yet done any exploratory or production drilling. Most of these properties were acquired by CONSOL Energy primarily for the coal rights, and, in many cases were acquired years ago. While chain of title work for the coal estate was generally fully developed, in many cases, the gas estate title work is less robust. Our practice is to perform a thorough title examination of the gas estate before we commence drilling activities and to acquire any additional rights needed to perfect our ownership of the gas estate for development and production purposes. We may incur substantial costs to acquire these additional property rights and the acquisition of the necessary rights may not be feasible in some cases. Our inability to obtain these rights may adversely impact our ability to develop those properties. Some states permit us to produce the gas without perfected ownership under an administrative process known as “pooling,” which requires us to give notice to all potential claimants and pay royalties into escrow until the undetermined rights are resolved. As a result, we may have to pay royalties to produce gas on acreage that we control and these costs may be material. Further, the pooling process is time-consuming and may delay our drilling program in the affected areas. In addition to acquiring these property right assets on an “as is, where is basis,” we have assumed all of the liabilities related to these assets, even if those liabilities were as a result of activities occurring prior to CONSOL Energy’s transfer of those assets to us. Our assumption of these liabilities is subject to the following allocation: we will be responsible for the first $10 million of aggregate unknown liabilities; CONSOL Energy will be responsible for the next $40 million of aggregate unknown liabilities; and we will be responsible for any additional unknown liabilities over $50 million. We will also be responsible for any unknown liabilities which were not asserted in writing by August 7, 2010. We must coordinate some of our gas production activities with coal mining activities in the same area, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In many places where we extract CBM the coal estate is dominant. In those cases, the coal operator, including, for example, CONSOL Energy and other entities, could exercise their rights to determine when and where certain drilling can take place in order to ensure the safety of the mine or to protect the mineability of the coal. Currently the majority of our producing properties are located in three counties in southwestern Virginia, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in one area. The vast majority of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in three counties in Virginia. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, natural disasters or interruption of transportation of natural gas produced from the wells in this basin or other events which impact this area. Proposed legislation that seeks to regulate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could increase our costs and reduce the value of our assets. Methane, the primary gas which we produce, is a greenhouse gas which is approximately 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide. Most of the coalbed methane we produce would otherwise be vented into the atmosphere in connection with coal mining activities, so our business could be viewed as a significant contributor to the reduction of GHG emissions and we may get credit for those reductions. We have voluntarily reported those reductions of GHG emissions to the Environmental Protection Agency for several years. Pursuant to an amendment to the master cooperation and safety agreement, CONSOL Energy and CNX Gas each receive 50% ownership of any GHG reduction benefits of our production activities both prior to and subsequent to the 2005 separation. 25 Table of Contents The U.S. Congress is considering climate change legislation that proposes to restrict GHG emissions. President Obama has pledged to implement an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce GHG emissions 80 percent by 2050 and pledged that he would cause the United States to be a world leader on GHG reduction and re-engage with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to develop a global GHG program. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), that the EPA had authority to regulate GHGs under the Clean Air Act and a number of states have filed lawsuits seeking to force the EPA to adopt GHG regulations. In December 2009, EPA made a determination that GHGs cause or contribute to air pollution and may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, which findings are prerequisites to EPA regulating GHGs under the Clean Air Act. Moreover, several states have already adopted, and other states are considering the adoption of, legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. If any Federal or state legislation or regulations that are ultimately adopted do not exempt coalbed methane from their coverage, we could have to curtail production, pay higher taxes or incur costs to purchase allowances that permit us to continue our operations. If any Federal or state legislation or regulations that are ultimately adopted do not give us credits for capturing methane that would otherwise be vented, thereby reducing GHG emissions, the value of our historical and future credits would be reduced or eliminated. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks. To manage our exposure to fluctuations in the price of natural gas, we enter into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. As of December 31, 2009, we had hedges on approximately 45.7 billion cubic feet of our 2010 natural gas production, 22.6 billion cubic feet of our 2011 natural gas production and 15.1 billion cubic feet of our 2012 natural gas production. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • the counterparties to our contracts fail to perform the contracts; or • the creditworthiness of our counterparties or their guarantors is substantially impaired. If our gas hedges would no longer qualify for hedge accounting, we will be required to mark them to market and recognize the adjustments through earnings. This may result in more volatility in our income in future periods. Our future level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. At December 31, 2009, we had $57.9 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness and the covenants contained in our financing agreements, could have important consequences for our operations, including: • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; 26 Table of Contents • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because our revolving credit facility provides for variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • reducing our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our revolving credit facility contains numerous financial and other restrictive covenants. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail. Our ability to comply with the covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our obligations under those agreements. We may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations with cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our financing agreements may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure that any such proposed offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed or, if completed, that the terms will be favorable to us. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH CONSOL ENERGY Our principal stockholder, CONSOL Energy, is in a position to affect our ongoing operations, corporate transactions and other matters, all of our executive officers are executive officers of CONSOL Energy and all but one of our directors also serve on their board of directors of CONSOL Energy, creating potential conflicts of interest. Our principal stockholder, CONSOL Energy, owns 83.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, CONSOL Energy will be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. For example, CONSOL Energy will continue to control decisions with respect to: • the election and removal of directors; • mergers or other business combinations involving us; • future issuances of our common stock or other securities; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Any exercise by CONSOL Energy of their control rights may be in its own best interest which may not be in the best interest of our other stockholders and our company. CONSOL Energy’s ability to control our company may also make investing in our stock less attractive. These factors in turn may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Executive officers of CONSOL Energy serve as our executive officers. In addition, all but one of our directors serve as directors or officers of CONSOL Energy, and/or own CONSOL Energy stock, stock units or options to purchase CONSOL Energy stock, or they may be entitled to participate in the CONSOL Energy compensation plans. CONSOL Energy provides, and may in the future provide additional, cash- and equity-based compensation to employees or others based on CONSOL Energy’s performance. These arrangements and ownership interests of cash- or equity-based awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when directors or executive officers who own CONSOL Energy stock or stock options or who participate in the CONSOL Energy equity plan arrangements are faced with decisions that could have different implications for CONSOL Energy than they do for us. These potential conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. 27 Table of Contents Potential conflicts may arise between us and CONSOL Energy that may not be resolved in our favor. The relationship between CONSOL Energy and us may give rise to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things, transactions and agreements among CONSOL Energy and us, issuances of additional voting securities and the election of directors. When the interests of CONSOL Energy diverge from our interests, CONSOL Energy may exercise their substantial influence and control over us in favor of their own interests over our interests. Our certificate of incorporation and the master cooperation and safety agreement entitle CONSOL Energy to various corporate opportunities which might otherwise have belonged to us and relieve CONSOL Energy and their directors, officers and employees from owing us fiduciary duties with respect to such opportunities. Our intercompany agreements with CONSOL Energy are not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. We have entered into agreements with CONSOL Energy which govern various transactions between us and our ongoing relationship, including registration rights, tax sharing and indemnification. All of these agreements were entered into while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of CONSOL Energy, and were negotiated in the overall context of CONSOL Energy creating CNX Gas. As a result, these agreements were not negotiated at arm’s-length. Accordingly, certain rights of CONSOL Energy, particularly the rights relating to the number of demand and piggy-back registration rights that CONSOL Energy will have, the assumption by us of the registration expenses related to the exercise of these rights, our indemnification of CONSOL Energy for certain liabilities under these agreements, our payment of taxes and the retention of tax attributes may be more favorable to CONSOL Energy than if the agreements had been the subject of independent negotiation. We and CONSOL Energy and their other affiliates may enter into other material transactions and agreements from time to time in the future which also may not be deemed to be independently negotiated. Our agreements with CONSOL Energy may limit our ability to obtain capital, make acquisitions or effect other business combinations. Our business strategy anticipates future acquisitions of natural gas and oil properties and companies. Any acquisition that we undertake would be subject to the limitations and restrictions set forth in our agreements with CONSOL Energy and could be subject to our ability to access capital from outside sources on acceptable terms through the issuance of our common stock or other securities. A significant portion of our production is associated with the coal mining operations of CONSOL Energy and any disruption to those coal mining operations will adversely impact our production and results of operations. In 2009, approximately 19% of our gas production was produced in connection with coal extraction by CONSOL Energy; 7% of our production was associated with CONSOL Energy’s active mining operations. CONSOL Energy’s coal mining operations can be impacted by many events, some of which are beyond CONSOL Energy’s control, including for example, • an extended decline in prices they receive for coal; • changes in the supply of and demand for coal; • the disruption of rail, barge and other systems that transport coal; • the availability of qualified personnel to work in coal operations; • work stoppages at union-represented mines; • legal proceedings brought by property owners, environmental groups, governmental authorities and others; 28 Table of Contents • the risks inherent in coal mining, such as unforeseeable geological conditions, equipment failure, methane gas issues, fires, accidents and weather conditions; and • compliance with laws and government regulations, including the need to obtain government permits for mining operations, environmental laws and regulations and employee health and safety regulations. If CONSOL Energy’s mining operations are idled or curtailed as a result of any of these factors at any coal mine where we have gas operations associated with mining operations, especially CONSOL Energy’s Buchanan Mine in southwest Virginia, our CBM production would be adversely affected and the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, in 2007 and 2008, CONSOL Energy was forced to idle their Buchanan Mine due to various issues. As a result, we estimate that our total gas production was 3.7 Bcf and 1.3 Bcf less than it otherwise would have been in those years if the Buchanan Mine had operated at normal levels. Further, CONSOL Energy’s coal mining activities at their Buchanan Mine require the removal of water from the mine and the ventilation of the mine. Several lawsuits and permit appeals have been filed that could affect the removal of water from the mine. Separately, a lawsuit has been filed with respect to a ventilation fan that could affect the ventilation of the mine. If operations at CONSOL Energy’s Buchanan Mine are adversely affected as a result of these legal proceedings, our gas production relating to mining activities would be adversely affected. Our prior and continuing relationship with CONSOL Energy exposes us to risks attributable to CONSOL Energy’s businesses. We and CONSOL Energy are obligated to indemnify each other for certain matters as set forth in our agreements with CONSOL Energy. As a result, any claims made against us that are properly attributable to CONSOL Energy (or conversely, claims against CONSOL Energy that are properly attributable to us) in accordance with these arrangements could require us or CONSOL Energy to exercise our respective rights under the master separation agreement and the master cooperation and safety agreement. In addition, we have an agreement with CONSOL Energy that we will refrain from taking certain actions that would result in CONSOL Energy being in default under its debt instruments. Those debt instruments currently contain covenants that would be breached if we borrow from a third party unless we contemporaneously guaranteed indebtedness of CONSOL Energy under those debt instruments. In addition, those debt instruments contain covenants that would be breached by our granting liens on certain assets unless we contemporaneously grant a pari passu lien securing the indebtedness of CONSOL Energy under those debt instruments. In connection with our obtaining an unsecured credit facility with a group of commercial lenders, we guaranteed CONSOL Energy’s $250 million 7.875% notes due March 1, 2012. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances, CONSOL Energy cannot, or will not, make the required payment or in turn that we are required to make a required payment to CONSOL Energy. If this were to occur, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. CONSOL Energy’s ownership permits them to acquire the minority interest in a transaction where the minority stockholders have no vote and they may be faced with either accepting the consideration offered by CONSOL Energy or pursuing appraisal rights. CONSOL Energy announced in late January 2008 a proposal to acquire all of the minority interest in CNX Gas. Although CONSOL Energy withdrew that proposal, they could in the future determine to again pursue that proposal or a similar or a different transaction to acquire the minority interest. A merger or similar transaction involving CNX Gas normally requires a stockholders meeting and vote of the stockholders of CNX Gas. However, under Delaware law and CNX Gas’ Certificate of Incorporation, stockholder action may be taken if a consent is signed by CONSOL Energy as the majority stockholder of CNX Gas. In addition, were CONSOL Energy to acquire 90% or more of our common stock, CONSOL Energy could by itself effect a “short form” merger without any stockholder action or approval. Thus, the minority stockholders may not have any vote on a 29 Table of Contents merger or other transaction involving us that results in our becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of CONSOL Energy and the minority stockholders may be faced with either accepting the consideration offered by CONSOL Energy or pursuing appraisal rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 