ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this report before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting our company. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face as described below and elsewhere in this report. With respect to this discussion, the terms “Shenghuo,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to China Shenghuo Pharmaceutical Holdings, Inc., our 94.95%-owned subsidiary Kunming Shenghuo Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. (“Shenghuo China”) and the five foreign owned subsidiaries of Shenghuo China that are organized under the laws of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC” or “China”). RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS We May Not Be Able To Refinance or Repay Loans We Have Received. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $22.1 million of loans maturing in 2012 (including an aggregate of $3.3 million maturing in January 2012, which has been repaid as of the date of the report, $7.5 million maturing in April 2012, $4.5 million maturing in May 2012, $0.4 million maturing in June 2012, $5.6 maturing in August 2012, $0.8 million maturing in September 2012 and $0.04 million to be repaid on demand). Although we plan to use Shenghuo Plaza and the two new office buildings as mortgage collateral for new loans to reduce current short term debt once we obtain the Property Ownership Certificate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance the loans on acceptable terms or at all, and we do not have at this time the cash necessary to repay the loans as they mature. If we do not refinance or cannot repay our outstanding loans and we default on our obligations, the lenders can demand accelerated payment and foreclose on collateral, our financial condition would be materially adversely affected, and we could be forced to cease operations. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain extensions on our existing loans, such extensions may include operational and financial covenants significantly more restrictive than our current loan covenants, which would adversely affect our plans and business goals. 18 Although We Achieved Positive Income For The Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 Respectively, We Recorded Working Capital Deficiency for the Years Ended December 31, 2011, and 2010, And Our Business Condition Is Uncertain. Although we have had a history prior to 2008 of positive income, working capital and retained earnings and we realized a net income of approximately $0.1 million and $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, we incurred a net loss of approximately $6.6 million and $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. We also recorded a working capital deficiency amounting to approximately $23.2 million and $15.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Many of those losses occurred in 2009 and were associated with our effort to develop better channels for selling our products with a view to also growing our sales through the OTC market, in order to realize higher product margins. Although our OTC market increased during these two years, it is uncertain whether our efforts in that regard will ultimately succeed to the level we envision. Our Current Business Is Primarily Based On A Single Product, Which Currently Accounts For Approximately 84.5% Of Our Revenues, And We May Not Be Able To Generate Significant Revenue If This Product Fails. Approximately 84.5% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 comes from a single product, Xuesaitong Soft Capsules, and our business may fail if this product fails or generates materially less sales revenues. If we experience delays, increased expenses, or other difficulties in the manufacture and sale of the Xuesaitong Soft Capsules, or if our renewal application of the patent protection is rejected, then we may not be able to generate significant revenues or profitability, and our business and financial condition would be materially adversely affected and we could be forced to cease operations, in which case investors may lose all or part of their investment in our company. We Rely On A Few Suppliers For Sanchi, The Primary Ingredient in Most of Our Products, And Any Disruption With Our Suppliers Could Delay Product Shipments And Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business Operations And Profitability. Due to the limited availability of Sanchi, we currently rely on a small number of suppliers as our source for Sanchi, the primary raw material that is needed for us to produce our products. We believe that there are few alternative suppliers available to supply the Sanchi plant, and should any of our current suppliers terminate their business arrangements with us or increase their prices of materials supplied, it would delay product shipments and adversely affect our business operations and profitability. In addition, if the suppliers refused to sell Sanchi, or increased the sales prices of Sanchi, this would also have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. In an effort to reduce costs of Sanchi, in 2011, we constructed green houses in which Sanqi has been grown on the 3.3 acres (20 Mu) within the Resort. We hope this will reduce our reliance on third party suppliers of Sanqi in the future. However, since it normally takes three years from the time Sanchi is grown until the first yield is realized, we will continue to be dependent on third party suppliers in the immediately future. If Our Primary Product Is Replaced By Other Medicines, Is Removed From Key Independent Insurance Catalogues of the Various Provinces, Our Revenue Will Suffer Substantially. Under Chinese regulations, patients purchasing medicines listed by China’s state and/or provincial governments in the insurance catalogues, which include the State Insurance Catalogue and the insurance catalogues of various provinces (“PIC”), may be reimbursed, in part or in whole, by a social medicine fund. Accordingly, pharmaceutical distributors prefer to engage in the distribution of medicines listed in the State Insurance Catalogue or the PICs. Since 2005, our main, Xuesaitong Soft Capsules, had been listed in the State Insurance Catalogue. The content of the State Insurance Catalogue is subject to change by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security of China, and new medicines may be added to the State Insurance Catalogue by provincial level authorities as part of their limited ability to change certain medicines listed in the State Insurance Catalogue. Xuesaitong Soft Capsules accounted for approximately 84.5% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. On July 1, 2010, the updated State Insurance Catalogue became effective. Xuesaitong Soft Capsules, our primary product, was not included in Part B of the State Insurance Catalogue as it has been since 2005. However, if Xuesaitong Soft Capsules is included in the Provincial Insurance Catalog of each of the 31 Chinese provinces, this will allow the patient purchasing such drug to receive the same 90% reimbursement as if such drug were listed on Part B of the State Insurance Catalogue. The update of all Provincial Insurance Catalogs of the 31 Chinese provinces has been completed in 2011 and Xuesaitong Soft Capsules has been listed in the 2010 Provincial Insurance Catalogs of the following sixteen provinces and cities: Tianjin, Jiangsu, Hebei, Henan, Shanghai, Heilongjiang, Fujian, Anhui, Guangdong, Yunnan, Beijing, Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi, Gansu and Hunan. The total percentage of sales derived from Xuesaitong Soft Capsules in these provinces account for approximately 72% in 2010 and 77% in 2011. Xuesaitong Soft Capsules has been delisted from the 2010 Provincial Insurance Catalogs of the following 15 provinces: Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Shangdong, Shanxi, Chongqing, Hubei, Sichuan, Xinjiang, Guizhou, Qinghai, Ningxia, Tibet and Hainan provinces and city where it generated a sales of 28% in 2010 and 20.19% in 2011. Should the Company fail to receive provincial approval in the major provinces in which it is sold, such failure could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 19 We May Need To Raise Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations And Failure To Raise Additional Capital May Force Us To Delay, Reduce, Or Eliminate Our Product Development Programs. Due to the large amount of funds required for research and development and the subsequent marketing of products, the pharmaceutical industry is very capital intensive. The industry is characterized by small receivable turnovers, which could mean that we will need more working capital if our revenues increase. We have traditionally been committed to research and development and it is possible that we will need to raise additional capital within the foreseeable future. Additional capital may be needed for the development of new products or product lines, advances to sales representatives, financing of general and administrative expenses, licensing or acquisition of additional technologies, and marketing of new or existing products. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise the appropriate amount of capital needed for our future operations. Failure to obtain funding when needed may force us to delay, reduce, or eliminate our product development programs. Currently, all of the Company’s land, buildings and machinery are collateral securing certain bank loans. If we default on the repayment obligations when due, the properties may be foreclosed upon by the lenders, and our operations would be materially adversely affected and we might cease to be able to operate as a going concern. We May Have Difficulty Establishing Adequate Management, Legal And Financial Controls In The PRC. PRC companies have historically not adopted a western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls, and computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we have had difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC, including employees trained in US GAAP. As a result of these factors, we have had and continue to have difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet western standards. We have experienced difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, resulting in significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This occurred in 2008, and caused the restatement of our financial statements for fiscal 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, and the temporary suspension of trading in our stock on the NYSE Amex. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our Three Largest Customers Account For A Significant Percentage of Our Sales. We Cannot Be Certain That These Sales Will Continue; If They Do Not, Our Revenues Will Likely Decline. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 32.1% and 25.0% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We do not have any long-term contracts with these customers, each of whom orders only on a “purchase order” basis. There can be no assurances that any of these customers will continue to purchase products from us. The loss of any or all of these customers or a significant reduction in their orders would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. 20 The Failure To Manage Growth Effectively Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition, And Results Of Operations. The rapid market growth, if any, of our pharmaceutical products may require us to expand our employee base for managerial, operational, financial, and other purposes. As of December 31, 2011, we had 416 full-time, salaried employees, in addition to our employment of over 703 sales representatives who are paid on a commission basis. The continued future growth will impose significant added responsibilities upon the members of our management to identify, recruit, maintain, integrate, and motivate new employees. Aside from increased difficulties in the management of human resources, we may also encounter working capital issues, as we need increased liquidity to finance the purchases of raw materials and supplies, research and development of new products, acquisition of new businesses and technologies, and the hiring of additional employees. For effective growth management, we will be required to continue improving our operations, management, and financial systems and control. Our failure to manage growth effectively may lead to operational and financial inefficiencies that will have a negative effect on our profitability. Our Planned Expansion Of Sales Into Overseas Markets Could Fail, Reduce Operating Results And/Or Expose Us To Increased Risks Associated With Different Market Dynamics And Competition In Any Of The Foreign Countries Where We Attempt To Sell Our Products. We would face many new obstacles in our planned expansion of product sales in overseas markets. These markets are untested for our products and we face risks in expanding our business overseas, which include differences in regulatory product testing requirements, patent protection, taxation policy, legal systems and rules, marketing costs, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in political and economic conditions. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to the lack of recognition of our products or other factors. Developing product recognition overseas is expensive and time-consuming and our international expansion efforts may be more costly and less profitable than we expect. If we are not successful in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business, results of operations and profitability. We Are Dependent On Certain Key Personnel And Loss Of These Key Personnel Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and pharmaceutical factory operational expertise of key personnel. Gui Hua Lan, our non-executive Chairman of the Board, Feng Lan, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Lei Lan, our Vice President, and Raymond Wang, our Chief Financial Officer, perform key functions in the operation of our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these officers after the term of their employment contracts expire. The loss of these officers could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel. We cannot assure that we will be able to hire or retain such employees. Our Business And The Success Of Our Products Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Brand Image. We believe that establishing and strengthening our Lixuwang brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and to establishing key strategic relationships. The importance of brand recognition will increase as current and potential competitors enter the Chinese pharmaceutical market with competing products. Our ability to promote and position our Lixuwang brand depends largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide high quality products and customer service. These activities are expensive and we may not generate a corresponding increase in sales to justify these costs. If we fail to establish and maintain our brand, or if our brand value is damaged or diluted, we may be unable to maintain or increase our sales or revenue. We Face Intense Competition In The Pharmaceutical Industry And Such Competition Could Cause Our Sales Revenue And Profits To Decline. The pharmaceutical industry both within China and globally is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid and significant technological progress, and our operating environment is increasingly competitive. We face intense competitors that will attempt to create or are marketing products in the PRC that are similar to our products. Our competitors, both domestic and international, include large pharmaceutical companies, universities, and public and private research institutions that currently engage in or may engage in efforts related to the discovery and development of new pharmaceuticals. Many of these entities have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, manufacturing, marketing and sales resources than we do, as well as more experience in research and development, clinical trials, regulatory matters, manufacturing, marketing and sales. There can be no assurance that our products will be either more effective in their therapeutic abilities and/or be able to compete in price with that of our competitors. Failure to do either of these may result in decreased profits. 21 If Our Pharmaceutical Products Fail To Receive Regulatory Approval Or Are Severely Limited In These Products’ Scope Of Use, We May Be Unable To Recoup Considerable Research And Development Expenditures. The production of our pharmaceutical products is subject to the regulatory approval of the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) in China. The regulatory approval procedure for pharmaceuticals can be quite lengthy, costly, and uncertain. Depending upon the discretion of the SFDA, the approval process may be significantly delayed by additional clinical testing and require the expenditure of resources not currently available; in such an event, it may be necessary for us to abandon our application. Even where approval of the product is granted, it may contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. If approval of our product is denied, abandoned, or severely limited in terms of the scope of products use, it may result in the inability to recoup considerable research and development expenditures. In this regard, in 2009, two non-prescription supplemental pharmaceutical products, Levofloxacin Hydrochloride Soft Capsules and Brufen Soft Capsules, for which we had applied for production approval, were rejected by SFDA under its new, stricter regulatory procedures, and we are now unable to recoup those R&D investments. Currently, two of our products, Wei Dingkang Soft Capsules and Dencichine for Injection, have pending applications with the SFDA. Phase II exploratory and enhanced clinical trials for Wei DingKang have been completed in 2010 and Phase III clinical trials are expected start in May 2012 and completed by June 2014. The pharmacology and toxicology studies of Dencichine for Injection are almost finished and we are planning to apply for clinical trails for it with the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) in May of 2012. Clinical trails may take a significant amount of time. In addition, clinical testing and audit processes are out of our control, so we must allow for additional time. The Chinese Military Medical Institute performs these tests. The risk is that if we do not receive timely approval for either of these drugs, then production will be delayed and sales of the products cannot be planned for. If All Or A Significant Portion Of Our Customers With Trade Receivables Fail To Pay All Or Part Of The Trade Receivables Or Delay The Repayment, Our Net Income Will Decrease And Our Profitability Will Be Adversely Affected. As of December 31, 2011, our net accounts and notes receivable (less allowance for doubtful accounts of approximately $2.6 million) were approximately $18.1 million. The standard credit period for most of our new clients is two months. For certain clients, such as long-standing clients or large clients, we will extend the credit period. Currently, most of our clients have established a long-term corporate relationship with us, so their credit periods are generally six months. Within the medical industry in China, the collection period is generally longer than that for other industries. Our estimated average collection period for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 71 days. There is no assurance that our trade receivables will be fully repaid on a timely basis. If all or a significant portion of our customers with trade receivables fail to pay all or part of the trade receivables or delay the payment due to us for whatever reason, our net profit will decrease and our profitability will be adversely affected, and our liquidity will be adversely affected. Our Success Is Highly Dependent On Continually Developing New And Advanced Products, Technologies, And Processes And Failure To Do So May Cause Us To Lose Our Competitiveness In The Pharmaceutical Industry And May Cause Our Profits To Decline. To remain competitive in the pharmaceutical industry, it is important to continually develop new and advanced products, technologies, and processes. There is no assurance that our competitors’ new products, technologies, and processes will not render our existing products obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitiveness in the pharmaceutical market therefore relies upon our ability to enhance our current products, introduce new products, and develop and implement new technologies and processes. The research and development of new products and technologies is costly and time consuming, and there are no assurances that our research and development of new products will either be successful or completed within the anticipated timeframe, if at all. Our failure to technologically evolve and/or develop new or enhanced products may cause us to lose our competitiveness in the pharmaceutical industry and may cause our profits to decline. 22 If We Fail To Develop New Products With High Profit Margins And Our High Profit Margin Products Are Substituted By Competitor’s Products, Our Gross And Net Profit Margins Will Be Adversely Affected. The pharmaceutical industry is very competitive, and there may be pressure to reduce sale prices of products without a corresponding decrease in the price of raw materials. In addition, the medical industry in China is highly competitive and new products are constantly being introduced to the market. In order to increase the sales of our products and expand our market, we may be forced to reduce prices in the future, leading to a decrease in gross profit margin. To the extent that we fail to develop new products with high profit margins and our high profit margin products are substituted by competitors’ products, our gross profit margins will be adversely affected. The Commercial Success Of Our Products Depends Upon The Degree Of Market Acceptance Among The Medical Community And Failure To Attain Market Acceptance Among The Medical Community May Have An Adverse Impact On Our Operations And Profitability. The commercial success of our products depends upon the degree of market acceptance among the medical community, such as hospitals and physicians. Even if our products are approved by the SFDA, there is no assurance that physicians will prescribe or recommend our products to patients. Furthermore, a product’s prevalence and use at hospitals may be contingent upon our relationship with the medical community. The acceptance of our products among the medical community may depend upon several factors, including but not limited to, the product’s acceptance by physicians and patients as a safe and effective treatment, cost effectiveness, potential advantages over alternative treatments, and the prevalence and severity of side effects. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community may have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Our Primary Product Is Subject To Price Controls By The China Government, Which May Affect Both Our Revenues And Net Income. The laws of the PRC provide for the government to fix and adjust prices. Our primary product Xuesaitong Soft Capsules was subject to price controls which affected our gross profit, gross margin and net income. Since Xuesaitong Soft Capsules is no longer listed in the 2010 State Insurance Catalog and the 2010 Provincial Insurance Catalogs of Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Shangdong, Shanxi, Chongqing, Hubei, Sichuan, Xinjiang, Guizhou, Qinghai, Ningxia, Tibet and Hainan, it is no longer subject to the state price control and provincial price controls in these fifteen provinces and the Company has the right to determine the retail price of Xuesaitong Soft Capsules in these provinces. However, since Xuesaitong Soft Capsules is still listed in the insurance catalogs of the rest of the sixteen provinces, its price is still subject to price control administered by the price control authorities in those provinces. It is possible that additional products may be subject to price control, or that price controls may be increased in the future. To the extent that we are subject to price control, our revenue, gross profit, gross margin and net income will be affected since the revenue we derive from our sales will be limited and we may face no limitation on our costs. Further, if price controls affect both our revenue and costs, our profitability will be effectively subject to regulatory authorities in the PRC. Our Certificates, Permits, And Licenses Related To Our Pharmaceutical Operations Are Subject To Governmental Control And Renewal And Failure To Obtain Renewal Will Cause All Or Part Of Our Operations To Be Terminated. We are subject to various PRC laws and regulations pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry. We have attained certificates, permits, and licenses required for the operation of a pharmaceutical enterprise and the manufacturing of pharmaceutical products in the PRC. The pharmaceutical production permit and GMP certificates are valid for a term of five years and the health food certifications are valid for four year terms, and each must be renewed before their expiration. We originally obtained our Medicine Production Permit on November 4, 1996, which is valid until December 31, 2015. The Medicine Production Permit applies to products described as tablet, granule, capsule, soft capsule, powder, ointment and medicinal. If the permit expires without renewal, we will not be able to operate medicine production which will cause our operations to be terminated. 23 We intend to apply for renewal of these certificates, permits, and licenses prior to expiration. During the renewal process, we will be re-evaluated by the appropriate governmental authorities and must comply with the then-prevailing standards and regulations which may change from time to time. In the event that we are not able to renew the certificates, permits and licenses, all or part of our operations may be terminated. Furthermore, if escalating compliance costs associated with governmental standards and regulations restrict or prohibit any part of our operations, our operations and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Failure To Comply With Applicable GMP Standards Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. We are required to comply with applicable GMP regulations, which include requirements relating to personnel, premises and equipment, raw materials and products, qualification and validation, documents management, production management, quality control and quality assurance, and products distribution and recall. Manufacturing facilities must be approved by governmental authorities before we can use them to commercially manufacture our products and are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies. The SFDA have implemented the more stringent new GMP standards which are aimed at improving drug production management and controlling risks in the production process and introduce internationally-recognized quality control mechanisms. The latest update to the GMP standards have greatly raised the bar for quality control, documentation, and overall manufacturing processes, thus causing an increase of cost in manufacturing and decrease of profit margins. A pharmaceutical manufacturer must meet the new GMP standards, which became effective on March 1, 2011for each of its production facilities in China with respect to each form of pharmaceutical products it produces within a five-years grace period. Manufacturers of injectables, blood products, or vaccines have a three-years grace period to bring existing facilities in line with the revisions. We have obtained pharmaceutical products and health food GMP certificates. We currently hold the following GMP certificates: (1) a GMP certificate for ointment products that expires on December 31, 2015; (2) a GMP certificate for powder products that expires on March 5, 2014; (3) a GMP certificate for products in the form of tablet, granule, capsule, and soft capsule that expires on July 18, 2012; and (4) a GMP certificate for health food products that expires on December 25, 2012. Although our products meet the GMP guidelines and we are in the process to renew some GMP certificates and, we may not obtain clearance from the SFDA in the event that we are inspected. Although we intend to upgrade our production facilities to bring them in line with the new GMP standards, any failure to comply with the new GMP standards may subject us to fines or other penalties, which may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Cannot Guarantee The Protection Of Our Intellectual Property Rights And If Infringement Or Counterfeiting Of Our Intellectual Property Rights Occurs, Our Reputation And Business May Be Adversely Affected. To protect the reputation of our products, we have registered and applied for registration of our trademarks in the PRC where we have a major business presence. Our products are sold under these trademarks. There is no assurance that there will not be any infringement of our brand name or other registered trademarks or counterfeiting of our products in the future. Should any such infringement or counterfeiting occur, our reputation and business may be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses and substantial amounts of time and effort to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Such diversion of our resources may adversely affect our existing business and future expansion plans. 24 We Expect to Lose Certain Preferential Tax Concessions, Which May Cause Our Tax Liabilities To Increase And Our Profitability To Decline. We enjoy preferential tax concessions in the PRC as a high-tech enterprise. We had a tax preference for 2008, as determined by the PRC government and the regional tax authorities. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”), under which domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested entities will be subject to enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25% unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. The new law became effective on January 1, 2008. During the transition period for enterprises established before March 16, the tax rate will gradually increase starting in 2008 and will be equal to the new tax rate in 2012. The Company is qualified to enjoy preferential tax rate under relevant PRC tax laws and regulations, with effective income tax rate of 10% in 2009, 11% in 2010 and 12% in 2011. All subsidiaries which are non-manufacturers will be subject to the EIT Law at a rate of 25%. Because of the EIT Law, our tax liabilities will increase and our profits may accordingly decline as our reduced income tax rate is no longer applicable and/or the tax relief on investment in PRC is no longer available. Any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or other adverse tax treatments will increase our tax liabilities and reduce our net income. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or other adverse tax treatments, such as the discontinuation of preferential tax treatments for high and new technology enterprises altogether, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Do Not Carry Insurance To Cover Any Losses Due To Fire, Casualty Or Theft At Our Production Facility Located In Kunming, China. We have not obtained fire, casualty and theft insurance, and there is no insurance coverage for our raw materials, goods and merchandise, furniture and buildings in China. Any losses incurred by us will have to be borne by us without any assistance, and we may not have sufficient capital to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our production facility due to fire, severe weather, flood or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects We Are Responsible For The Indemnification Of Our Officers And Directors. Our Indemnification Obligations Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our current and former directors, officers, employees and agents against most actions of a civil, criminal, administrative or investigative nature. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. We currently hold directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some cases. Furthermore, our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage in some cases, in which case we may have to fund the indemnification amounts owed to such directors and officers ourselves. Therefore, our indemnification obligations could result in the diversion of our financial resources and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We May Suffer As A Result Of Product Liability Or Defective Products. We may produce products which inadvertently have an adverse pharmaceutical effect on the health of consumers despite proper testing. Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to maintain third party liability insurance to cover product liability claims. However, if a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contract with our customers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, and the inability to commercialize some products. We Rely On The Cooperation With Research Laboratories And Universities, And If These Institutions Cease To Cooperate With Us And We Cannot Find Other Suitable Substitute Research And Development Partners, Our Ability To Develop New Products May Be Hindered And Our Business May Be Adversely Affected. We cooperate with several research institutions. We rely to a certain extent on these institutions for our development of new products. There is no assurance that these institutions will continue cooperating with us to develop new products. In the event that these institutions cease to cooperate with us and it cannot find other suitable substitute research and development partners, our ability to develop new products may be hindered and our business may be adversely affected. 25 We Are Expanding Into The Hotel Management And Wellness Tourism Business Of Which We Don’t Have Prior Experience. In December 2010, we substantially finished the construction of the 17-storey Shenghuo Plaza. Two floors of Shenghuo Plaza are designed to be utilized as 12 Ways Chinese Herbal Beauty Demonstration Center, which has begun trial operation since October of 2011. The balance of Shenghuo Plaza is used as a four-star business hotel - Zhonghuang Hotel, restaurant and banquet facilities and an entertainment venue. The Company also plans to develop a TCM-based ecological wellness tourism destination that focuses on improving the health and extending the life expectancy of the elderly and introduce TCM culture - Xinglin International Health-Preserving Tourist Resort (the “Resort”). We do not have any track record in the hotel, hospitality and wellness tourism business and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting the business clientele or tourists we are seeking, meeting hotel room occupancy projections and at projected rates and achieving ancillary revenues from the restaurant and entertainment facilities within Shenghuo Plaza. The successful opening and operation of Shenghuo Plaza and the Resort is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include, among others, the ability to: purchase and negotiate acceptable lease terms, secure required governmental permits and approvals, generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our plans, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and the successful integration of this new line of business into our existing operations. Any failure to successfully operate Shenghuo Plaza could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our plan to develop the Resort will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. The planned expansion may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipate which could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. To mitigate the risk, on November 15, 2010, we formed Shenghuo Hotel Management of which we hold 80% equity interest, and Tianzhiheng holds 20% equity interest, to operate Zhonghuang Hotel together. Tianzhiheng is a professional hotel management company with extensive experience in hotel management. We believe the cooperation with Tianzhiheng can complement our lack of experience in hotel management business. Shenghuo Plaza Is In Trial Operation Now. We May Not Be Able To Get the Property Ownership Certificate And Business License As Promptly As We Expected. Any Delay Or Failure To Get Them Will Have An Adverse Impact On Our Operation Of The Shenghuo Plaza And Our Ability To Use The Shenghuo Plaza And The Two New Office Buildings As Mortgage Collateral For Any Of The Bank Loans We Borrow. We substantially completed the construction of Shenghuo Plaza at the end of 2010. Shenghuo Plaza consists of 17 storeys, two of which are utilized as 12 Ways Chinese Herbal Beauty Demonstration Center and the balance is used as a four-star business hotel-Zhonghuang Hotel, restaurant and banquet facilities and an entertainment venue. As of December 31, 2011, we incurred a cost of approximately RMB146.3 million (approximately $23 million) to build Shenghuo Plaza. While we have not conducted any appraisal, we believe that Shenghuo Plaza can be valued at approximately RMB250 million (approximately $39.7 million) based on the market price of comparable land and buildings. Shenghuo Plaza began trial operations since January 2011. As the interior decoration and outfitting of all the floors were completed in November 2011, the entire Shenghuo Plaza is now open to the public on a trial basis and will be formally open to the public after we obtain our business license. In order to get the business license for Shenghuo Plaza, we must obtain the following certificates: (1) Certificate of Completion Acceptance and Environmental Protection, (2) Certificate of Inner Building Environment Examination, (3) Certificate of Fire Prevention Inspection, (4) Building Completion Examination Certificate and (5) Property Ownership Certificate. As of now, we have obtained the first three certificates mentioned above. We expect to receive the Building Completion Examination Certificate and Property Ownership Certificate in April of 2012. Once the Building Completion Examination Certificate and Property Ownership Certificate are issued, we intend to apply for a business license for Zhonghuang Hotel and use Shenghuo Plaza and the two new office buildings as mortgage collateral for a new loan amounting to RMB100 million (approximately $16 million) to finance the Xinglin International Health-Preserving Tourist Resort and to reduce current short term debt. However, in order to get a Property Ownership Certificate of Shenghuo Plaza, we must obtain all of the certificates mentioned above first. There is no assurance that we will get the Building Completion Examination Certificate, the Property Ownership Certificate, or the business license within the time frame mentioned above. Any delay or failure to get them will have an adverse impact on our operation of the Shenghuo Plaza and our ability to use the Shenghuo Plaza and the two new office buildings as mortgage collateral for any of the bank loans we borrow. 26 RISKS RELATED TO CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN CHINA All Of Our Assets Are Located In China And Substantially All Of Our Revenues Are Derived From Our Operations In China, And Changes In The Political And Economic Policies Of The PRC Government Could Have A Significant Impact Upon The Business We May Be Able To Conduct In The PRC And Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since the 1970s. The government of the PRC has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, particularly the pharmaceutical industry, through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under our current leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. The PRC Laws And Regulations Governing Our Current Business Operations Are Sometimes Vague And Uncertain. Any Changes In Such PRC Laws And Regulations May Have A Material And Adverse Effect On Our Business. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, obtaining government approvals, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. There is no assurance that the PRC government will continue to pursue these policies or that its position on these issues will not change without notice. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered a foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find that we are in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: ·levying fines; ·revoking our business and other licenses; ·requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and ·requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. The Ability Of Our Chinese Operating Subsidiaries To Pay Dividends May Be Restricted Due To Foreign Exchange Control Regulations Of China. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated in China, our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMBis subject to the exchange control regulation in China. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. 27 Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIE’s, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits into foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Furthermore, the RMB is not freely convertible into foreign currencies nor can it be freely remitted abroad. Under the PRC’s Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and the Administration of Settlement, Sales and Payment of Foreign Exchange Regulations, Foreign Invested Enterprises are permitted either to repatriate or distribute its profits or dividends in foreign currencies out of its foreign exchange accounts, or exchange RMB for foreign currencies through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. The conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Invested Enterprises for recurring items, including the distribution of dividends to foreign investors, is permissible. The conversion of Reminbi into foreign currencies for capital items, such as direct investment, loans and security investment, is subject, however, to more stringent controls. Our operating subsidiaries are FIEs to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. Accordingly, we will have to maintain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends and/or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements. The Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Between U.S. Dollars And RMB Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. To the extent that we need to convert dollars into RMB for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into dollars for the operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiary in China would be reduced should the dollar appreciate against the RMB. We currently do not hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Until 1994, the RMB experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the RMB on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. As a result, from 1994 to July 2005, the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar remained stable. Countries, including the United States, argued that the RMB was artificially undervalued due to China’s monetary policies and pressured China to allow the RMB to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the dollar, and the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar has appreciated since then. Under the new policy the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the dollar. 28 Inflation In The PRC Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability And Growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past two decades, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20%. In 2011, the inflation rate was 5.4% and in January 2012, the inflation rate was 4.5%. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. Recent PRC Regulations Relating To Acquisitions Of PRC Companies By Foreign Entities May Create Regulatory Uncertainties That Could Restrict Or Limit Our Ability To Operate. Our Failure To Obtain The Prior Approval Of The China Securities Regulatory Commission, Or The CSRC, For The Listing And Trading Of Our Common Stock On NYSE Amex Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Operating Results, Reputation And Trading Price Of Our Common Stock. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in January 2005 concerning foreign exchange regulations on mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice states that if an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the relevant foreign exchange authorities. The public notice also states that the approval of the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by the PRC residents of a PRC company’s assets or equity interests to foreign entities for equity interests or assets of the foreign entities. In April 2005, SAFE issued another public notice further explaining the January notice. In accordance with the April notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents has been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the promulgation of the January notice, the PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their respective ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transaction or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. The April notice also provides that failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may result in restrictions on our PRC resident shareholders and our subsidiaries. Pending the promulgation of detailed implementation rules, the relevant government authorities are reluctant to commence processing any registration or application for approval required under the SAFE notices. In addition, on August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, State Administration of Taxation, State Administration for Industry and Commerce, CSRC and SAFE, amended and released the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge and Acquire Domestic Enterprises, new foreign-investment rules which took effect September 8, 2006, superseding much, but not all, of the guidance in the prior SAFE circulars. These new rules significantly revise China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-offshore restructurings and how foreign investors can acquire domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Furthermore, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. 29 Specifically, this regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. Because we completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, we believe it is not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our Common Stock on NYSE Amex does not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering that was completed in June 2007, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds of subsequent offerings into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies also may take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to halt future offerings before settlement and delivery of the Common Stock offered in such future offerings. Consequently, if you engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, you do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. Also, if the CSRC later requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our Common Stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. These news reports have created further uncertainty regarding the approach that the CSRC and other PRC regulators may take with respect to us. These new rules may significantly affect the means by which offshore-onshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from MOFCOM and other government authorities as appropriate. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure its domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of the SAFE notices and new rules. Our business operations or future strategy could be adversely affected by the SAFE notices and the new rules. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. Failure To Comply With The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Could Subject Us To Penalties And Other Adverse Consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Any Recurrence Of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, Avian Flu, Or Another Widespread Public Health Problem, In The PRC Could Adversely Affect Our Operations. A renewed outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur, could have a negative effect on our operations. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: ·quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations; ·the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and ·a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. A Downturn In The Economy Of The PRC May Slow Our Growth And Profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business, especially if it results in either a decreased use of our products or in pressure on us to lower our prices. The downturn in the Chinese economy and worldwide in 2008, 2009 and 2010 has had an adverse impact on the financial condition of patients and hospitals, which in turn affects our pharmaceutical sales and collection of trade receivables. If We Make Equity Compensation Grants To Persons Who Are PRC Citizens, They May Be Required To Register With The State Administration Of Foreign Exchange Of The PRC, Or SAFE. We May Also Face Regulatory Uncertainties That Could Restrict Our Ability To Adopt An Equity Compensation Plan For Our Directors And Employees And Other Parties Under PRC Law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company,” also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. In 2009 we adopted, and our stockholders approved, our 2009 Stock Incentive Plan pursuant to which we may make option grants to our officers and directors, most of whom are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers and directors who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. You May Experience Difficulties In Effecting Service Of Legal Process, Enforcing Foreign Judgments Or Bringing Original Actions In China Based Upon U.S. Laws, Including The Federal Securities Laws Or Other Foreign Laws Against Us Or Our Management. All of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities law of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 31 RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE If We Default Under Our Loan Contract With Yunnan Shuang Long Branch Of Agricultural Bank Of China, We Could Forfeit Part Or All Of Our Equity Interests In Shenghuo China And Our Stock Price May Be Substantially Depressed. One of the Company’s loan with Shuang Long Branch of Agricultural Bank of China (or ABC), executed on August 24, 2009, is secured by, among other things, a pledge of the Company’s 94.95% shares in Shenghuo China, our main operating subsidiary. Default by the Company under this loan facility, if not waived or modified, would permit the ABC to accelerate the loan and enforce on the pledged shares, and we may be forced to forfeit part or all of our equity ownership interests in Shenghuo China. In addition, our stock price may be substantially depressed as a result of the foreclosure or the sales of the pledged shares. The Price Of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile, And If An Active Trading Market For Our Common Stock Does Not Develop, The Price Of Our Common Stock May Suffer And Decline. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained or that the market price of our common stock will not decline. The price of our common stock is highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, some of which are outside of our control. Our Common Stock Could Be At Risk Of Being Delisted By The NYSE Amex, Making It More Difficult For Stockholders To Dispose Of Or To Obtain Accurate Quotations As To The Value Of Their Stock. Our common stock currently trades on NYSE Amex (the “Exchange”). The Exchange, as a matter of policy, will consider the suspension of trading in, or removal from listing of any stock if, among other things, (i) the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of at least $2 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years, (ii) the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $4 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years; (iii) the company fails to maintain stockholder’s equity of $6 million if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years; or (iv) the company has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial resources, or its financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the NYSE Amex, as to whether such issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature; or (v) it has been selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share and the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such shares within a reasonable time after being notified that the Exchange deems such action to be appropriate. In its review, the Exchange will consider all pertinent factors including, market conditions in general, the number of shares outstanding, plans which may have been formulated by management, applicable regulations of the state or country of incorporation or of any governmental agency having jurisdiction over the issuer, the relationship to other Exchange policies regarding continued listing, and, in respect of securities of foreign issuers, the general practice in the country of origin of trading in low-selling price issues. The delisting of our common stock by the Exchange would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. On September 22, 2010 the Company received notice from the Exchange Staff indicating that the Company is below certain of the Exchange’s continued listing standards due to the fact that its stockholder’s equity is less than $2,000,000, it has sustained losses from continuing operations, and it has net losses in two out its three most recent fiscal years, as set forth in Section 1003(a)(i) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide. The Company was afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the Exchange to demonstrate its ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by March 22, 2012. On October 29, 2010 and November 29, 2010, the Company presented its plan and responses to supplemental questions to the Exchange. 32 On December 6, 2010 the Exchange notified the Company that it accepted the Company’s plan of compliance and granted the Company an extension until March 22, 2012 to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. On March 21, 2012, the Exchange notified the Company its decision to defer making a determination on whether the Company has regained compliance until the company files the Annual Report on the Form 10-K on March 30, 2012. The Company has been subject to periodic review by Exchange Staff during the extension period. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by March 30, 2012 could result in the Company being delisted from the Exchange. Shares Eligible For Future Sale May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock, As The Future Sale Of A Substantial Amount Of Outstanding Stock In The Public Marketplace Could Reduce The Price Of Our Common Stock. In June 2007, we completed a public offering and sale of 460,000 shares of common stock. In addition, we registered 2,000,000 shares of common stock issued in a Private Placement, and all lock up restrictions regarding these shares have expired. We also registered 4,006,400 additional shares of common stock, effective September 19, 2007 (Registration No. 333-144959). Additionally, the former stockholders of Shenghuo China may be eligible to sell all or some of our shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a non-affiliate stockholder who has satisfied a six month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell shares under Rule 144 without any volume limitation. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. After March 31, 2009, no open market sales of securities covered by these registrations will be permitted (other than sales pursuant to Rule 144) until a new registration statement is filed and becomes effective. Our Principal Stockholder Has Significant Influence Over Us. Our largest shareholder, Lan’s Int’l Medicine Investment Co., Limited, or LIMI, beneficially owns or controls approximately 77.3% of our outstanding shares. Gui Hua Lan, our non-executive Chairman of the Board, Feng Lan, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and Zheng Yi Wang are directors of LIMI and have voting and investment control over the shares owned by LIMI. In addition, Gui Hua Lan, Feng Lan and Zheng Yi Wang own 62.42%, 5.15% and 1.45%, respectively, of LIMI’s issued and outstanding shares, and Lei Lan, our Vice President, owns 9.37% of LIMI. We have other officers and directors who also hold equity interests in LIMI. LIMI has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. LIMI also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of LIMI, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to it. The interests of LIMI may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. The Interests Of The Existing Minority Shareholders In Shenghuo China And Shenghuo Hotel Management May Diverge From Our Own Interests And This May Adversely Affect Our Ability To Manage Shenghuo China And Shenghuo Hotel Management. Shenghuo China, our principal operating subsidiary, is an equity joint venture in which we directly own a 94.95% interest and Kunming Dian Jiao Investment Consulting Co., Ltd., or Dian Jiao, owns the remaining 5.05% interest. Shenghuo Hotel Management is an equity joint venture in which we directly own a 80% interest and Kunming Tianzhiheng Hotel Management Co., Ltd., or Tianzhiheng, owns the remaining 20% interest. Dian Jiao or Tianzhiheng’s interests may not be aligned with our interest at all times. If our interests diverge, Dian Jiao or Tianzhiheng may exercise its right under PRC laws and its consent rights to protect its own interest, which may be adverse to us and our investors. Further, should we wish to transfer our equity interest in Shenghuo China or Shenghuo Hotel Management, in whole or in part, to a third-party, Dian Jiao or Tianzhiheng has a right of first refusal under China’s joint venture regulations. In addition to its statutory rights as a minority shareholder, Dian Jiao has additional rights under the joint venture contract and under the articles of association of Shenghuo China. The joint venture contract and articles of association require the consent of each of Shenghuo China’s shareholders and/or unanimous board approval on matters such as a major change in the business line of the company and expansion or amendment of the business scope of the company. 33 Under our joint venture contract with Tianzhiheng, the consent of the other shareholder is required when either of the shareholders transfers all or part of its investment to a third party. Dian Jiao or Tianzhiheng has thus far been cooperative with us in handling matters with respect to the business of Shenghuo China and Shenghuo Hotel Management respectively. There is no assurance, however, that Dian Jiao or Tianzhiheng will continue to act in a cooperative manner in the future. The Ability Of Our Chinese Operating Subsidiaries To Pay Dividends May Be Restricted Due To Our Corporate Structure. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated in China. As an equity joint venture, Shenghuo China is required to establish reserve funds and staff and workers’ bonus and welfare funds, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distributions in accordance with Chinese law. Shenghuo China is required to allocate at least 10% of our net profits to the reserve fund until the balance of this fund has reached 50% of Shenghuo China’s registered capital. In addition, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from the one performed under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. As a result, we may not receive sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiaries to enable us to make dividend distributions to our stockholders in the future and limitations on distributions of the profits of Shenghuo China could negatively affect our financial condition and assets, even if our GAAP financial statements indicate that our operations have been profitable. Weaknesses In Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting or Disclosure Controls and Procedures Have Had and May Continue to Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, The Price Of Our Common Stock, Operating Results And Financial Condition. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008 and our assessments of our disclosure controls and procedures under Item 307 of Regulation S-K, management concluded that as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Please refer to the discussion under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” for further discussion of our material weaknesses as of December 31, 2011. Should we be unable to remediate those or any other material weaknesses promptly and effectively, such weaknesses could harm our operating results, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Any litigation or other proceeding or adverse publicity relating to the material weaknesses could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. These deficiencies include our accounting personnel do not have sufficient knowledge, experience and training in maintaining our books and records and preparing financial statements in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles (“US GAAP”) standards and SEC rules and regulations. The accounting skills and understanding necessary to fulfill the requirements of US GAAP-based reporting, including the skills of US GAAP-based period end closing, consolidation of financial statements, and US GAAP conversion, are inadequate and were inadequately supervised. The lack of adequate US GAAP review resulted in some material audit adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2010, which were made to adjust taxes payable for tax provision, adjust deferred tax, and record prior year audit adjustments to adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts. We expect to expend a significant amount of funds to address these deficiencies and there is no guarantee that we will be able to resolve these deficiencies, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and operating results and the price of our common stock. 34 Standards For Compliance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002 Are Uncertain, And If We Fail To Comply In A Timely Manner, Our Business Could Be Harmed And Our Stock Price Could Decline. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, Item 307 and Item 308 is both costly and challenging. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting under Item 308 of Regulation S-K or effective disclosure controls and procedures under Item 307 of Regulation S-K, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our business and reported financial information and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our Common Stock May Be Considered A “Penny Stock,” And Thereby Be Subject To Additional Sale And Trading Regulations That May Make It More Difficult To Sell. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act for 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Smaller reporting companies are not required to provide the information required by this item. 