Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We have described below the material risks which we and our subsidiaries face. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.All of the information included in this Report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public should be carefully considered and evaluated before investing in any securities issued by us.Business RisksOur actual construction and development costs could exceed our forecast, and our cash flow from construction and development projects may not be immediate, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase cash distributions.We are engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving existing and new assets for which we have expended or will expend significant capital, and we expect to engage in additional growth projects of this type. The construction of new assets involves regulatory, environmental, legal, political, materials and labor cost, operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that we are not aware of when we commit to the project, including the ability of any foundation shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. Any of these factors could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our growth projects.Our revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on our expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, if we build a new pipeline or expand an existing facility, the design, construction and development may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the new facilities. We are exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by our customers. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Credit risk exists in relation to our growth projects, both because the foundation shippers have made long-term commitments to us for capacity on such projects and certain of the foundation shippers have agreed to provide credit support as construction progresses. If a foundation shipper fails to meet the contractual credit requirements, an adjustment to the scope of the project could occur to accommodate a reduced volume commitment or we may be forced to find new customers to replace the defaulting customer, which could reduce the returns on the project. Our exposure also relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by us to them under certain NNS and PAL services.We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For 2015, no one customer comprised more than 10% of our operating revenues, and our top ten customers comprised approximately 45% of our revenues. If any of our significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by us or contracted for with us, to post the required credit support for construction associated with our growth projects or to repay the gas they owe us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our FERC gas tariffs only allow us to require limited credit support in the event that our transportation customers are unable to pay for our services. Item 7A of this Report contains more information on credit risk arising from gas loaned to customers. Natural gas producers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and support several of our growth projects. For example, in 2015, approximately 50% of our revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers. During 2015, the prices of oil and natural gas declined significantly from an increase in supplies mainly from shale production areas in the U.S. Should the prices of natural gas and oil remain at current levels for a sustained period of time, or decline further, we could be exposed to increased credit risk associated with our producer customer group, which would adversely impact our business. We may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions such as narrower basis differentials and sustained changes in the levels of natural gas and oil prices which adversely affect the value of our transportation services.Transportation rates we are able to charge customers are heavily influenced by longer-term trends in, for example, the amount and geographical location of natural gas production and demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical 13facilities and LNG export facilities. As a result of changes in longer-term trends, a sustained narrowing of basis differentials corresponding to traditional flow patterns on our pipeline systems (generally south to north and west to east) has occurred, reducing the transportation rates and adversely impacting other contract terms we can negotiate with our customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts scheduled for renewal. Each year, a portion of our firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. Over the past several years, we have renewed many expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, or not at all. We expect this trend to continue, mainly for contracts to transport gas from west to east across our system, and therefore, we may not be able to sell our available capacity, extend expiring contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts. The prevailing market conditions may also lead some of our customers, particularly customers that are experiencing financial difficulties, to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to us. These sustained conditions have had, and we expect will continue to have, a materially adverse effect on our revenues, earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and distributable cash flows.In 2008 and 2009, we placed into service a number of large new pipelines and expansions of our system, including our East Texas Pipeline, Southeast Expansion, Gulf Crossing Pipeline, and Fayetteville and Greenville Laterals. These projects were supported by firm transportation agreements with anchor shippers, typically having a term of ten years and pricing and other terms negotiated based on then current market conditions, which included wider basis spreads and, correspondingly, higher transportation rates than those prevailing in the current market. As a result, in 2018 and 2019, we will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than other years. We cannot predict what market conditions will prevail at the time such contracts expire, but if the contracts are renewed, we expect that these contracts will renew at lower transportation rates than when the contracts were initially executed. For example, if these contracts were renewed at current transportation market rates, our revenues earned from these transportation contracts would be materially lower. If we are unable to renew or replace these and other expiring contracts when they expire, or if the terms of any such renewal or replacement contracts are not as favorable as the expiring agreements, our revenues and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. These market factors and conditions have adversely impacted our revenues, EBITDA and distributable cash flow.Changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and NGLs, impact supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact our business.Our business is not significantly impacted by the short-term change in commodity prices, however, our customers, a significant amount of which are producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices, which can impact our ability to renew contracts at existing capacities or rates or impact the producer’s ability to make payment for the services we provide. The prices of natural gas, oil and NGLs fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. If the recent dramatic declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and NGLs prices mentioned above were to continue for a sustained period of time, the businesses of our producer customer group would be adversely affected which, in turn, would reduce the demand for our services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. Conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas and NGLs could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and NGLs. A reduced level of demand for natural gas and NGLs could reduce the utilization of capacity on our systems, reduce the demand for our services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and adversely impact our revenues, EBITDA and distributable cash flow.Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs, or more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays.Our pipelines are subject to regulation by PHMSA of the DOT under the NGPSA with respect to natural gas and the HLPSA with respect to NGLs. The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and NGLs pipeline facilities. These laws have resulted in the adoption of rules by PHMSA, that, among other things, require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas (HCAs), such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for certain intrastate natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines, which regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. Compliance with these rules has resulted in an overall increase in our maintenance costs. New laws or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. 14The NGPSA and HLPSA were most recently updated by the 2011 Act, which was signed into law in early 2012. Under the 2011 Act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, with a total cap of $2.0 million. The 2011 Act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety programs of PHMSA through 2015, and directs the Secretary of Transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in more stringent safety controls or inspections or additional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemaking. Among other things, the 2011 Act directed the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, pipeline material strength testing and verification of maximum allowable pressures of certain pipelines. Although a number of the mandates imposed under the 2011 Act have yet to be acted upon by PHMSA, the provisions of the 2011 Act continue to have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. New pipeline safety legislation that will reauthorize the federal pipeline safety programs of PHMSA through 2019 will be under consideration. Passage of new legislation reauthorizing the PHMSA pipeline safety programs is expected to require, among other things, pursuit of those legal mandates included in the 2011 Act but not acted upon by PHMSA.Further, we have entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers that utilize the design capacity of certain of our pipeline assets, assuming that we operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline's SMYS. We have authority from PHMSA to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures; however, PHMSA retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. If PHMSA were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, we may not be able to transport all of our contracted quantities of natural gas on our pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet our contractual obligations.We may not continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate, or at all.The amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations and financing activities and the amount of cash we require, or determine to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that influence the amount of cash we have available for distribution in any quarter include:•fluctuations in cash generated by our operations, including, as a result of the seasonality of our business, customer payment issues and the timing of payments, general business conditions and market conditions, which impact, for example, contract renewals, pricing, basis spreads, time period price spreads, market rates and supply and demand for natural gas and our services;•the level of capital expenditures we make or anticipate making, including for expansion, growth projects and acquisitions;•the amount of cash necessary to meet current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities;•fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets on acceptable terms to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the timing and commercial success of any such initiatives; and•unanticipated costs to operate our business, such as for maintenance and regulatory compliance.There is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from us. Our distributions are determined each quarter by the board of directors of our general partner based on the board’s consideration of our financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other relevant factors at that time. We may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time we determine that our cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs.We may not be successful in executing our strategy to grow and diversify our business.We rely primarily on the revenues generated from our long-haul natural gas transportation and storage services. As a result, negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. We are pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying our business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage 15assets, among others. Our ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on our ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects. We may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. Any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things:•the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns;•inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies;•a decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project;•a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition or project;•inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;•an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets;•unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and•changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals.Additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks:•an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire;•the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, for which our indemnity is inadequate or for which our insurance policies may exclude from coverage;•limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and•customer or key employee losses of an acquired business.There is no certainty that we will be able to complete these acquisitions or projects on schedule, on budget or at all.We may not be able to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to a sustained narrowing of price spreads between time periods and reduced volatility which adversely affect our storage services.We own and operate substantial natural gas storage facilities. The market for the storage and PAL services that we offer is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for our transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. Market conditions have caused a sustained narrowing of time period price spreads and a sustained decline in the price volatility of natural gas, which has adversely impacted the rates we can charge for our storage and PAL services and the value associated with these services, especially when compared to previous historical levels. These market factors and conditions have adversely impacted our revenues, EBITDA and distributable cash flow.Failure to comply with environmental or worker safety laws and regulations or an accidental release of pollutants into the environment may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities.Our operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of worker safety or the environment. These laws include, for example, the CAA, the Clean Water Act, CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, OSHA and analogous state laws. These laws and regulations may restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which we handle or dispose of wastes, imposing remedial obligations to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release, requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements, imposing safety and health criteria addressing worker protection, and imposing substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure 16to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Under certain of these environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several or strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released pollutants or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were not in compliance with all laws. We may not be able to recover some or any of the costs incurred from insurance. Stricter environmental or worker safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our operational or compliance costs and compliance with new or more stringent environmental legal requirements could delay or prohibit our ability to obtain permits for operations or require us to install additional pollution control equipment.Climate change legislation and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our pipeline and storage services.The U.S. Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as well as some states and regional groupings of states have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of GHG. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and GHG reporting and tracking programs. In the absence of federal GHG-limiting legislation, the EPA had adopted rules under authority of the CAA that, among other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (PSD) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting "best available control technology" standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the U.S., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In October 2015, the EPA published a final reporting rule for certain onshore gathering and boosting systems consisting primarily of gathering pipelines, compressors and process equipment used to perform natural gas compression, dehydration and acid gas removal.Moreover, the EPA proposed in August 2015 rules that will establish emission standards for methane and volatile organic compounds released from new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmissions facilities, as part of the current U.S. President's administration’s efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and natural gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. The EPA is expected to finalize those rules in 2016. Furthermore, the EPA has passed a rule, known as the Clean Power Plan, to limit GHGs from power plants but on February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed this rule while it is being challenged in the federal D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. If this rule survives legal challenge, then depending on the methods used to implement this rule, it could reduce demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our services, results of operations, and cash flows. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.A failure in our computer systems or a cyber-security attack on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our ability to operate our business.We have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. Our businesses are dependent upon our operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our business, including the operation of our pipeline and storage facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions. Any failure of our computer systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business.It has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called "cyber-attacks" on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. Any cyber-attacks that affect our facilities, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause us a financial loss and/or damage our reputation.17A significant portion of our debt will mature over the next five years and will need to be paid or refinanced.A significant portion of our debt is set to mature in the next five years, including our revolving credit facility. We may not be able to refinance our maturing debt upon commercially reasonable terms, or at all, depending on numerous factors, including our financial condition and prospects at the time and the then current state of the bank and capital markets in the U.S. Further, our liquidity may be adversely affected if we are unable to replace our revolving credit facility upon acceptable terms when it matures.Limited access to the debt and equity markets could adversely affect our business.Our current strategy is to fund our announced growth projects through currently available financing options, including utilizing cash flow from operations, borrowing under our revolving credit facility and accessing proceeds from our subordinated loan agreement and in the near term, to refinance currently maturing debt. Changes in the debt and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. Instability in the financial markets may increase our cost of capital while reducing the availability of funds. This may affect our ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations or growth projects. Reduced access to the debt and equity markets could limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions and growth projects. If the debt and equity markets were not available, it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to us on terms and conditions that are acceptable. We have historically relied on our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from debt and equity offerings to execute our growth strategy and to meet our financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Any disruption could require us to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until we can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs. Such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing our operations to lower expenses, and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. We may be unable to execute our growth strategy or take advantage of business opportunities, any of which could negatively impact our business.Our revolving credit facility contains operating and financial covenants that restrict our business and financing activities.Our revolving credit facility contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement limits our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, or grant liens or make negative pledges. The agreement also requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the agreement) of no more than 5.0 to 1.0, or up to 5.5 to 1.0 in the three quarters following the quarter of an acquisition, which limits the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, including to grow our business, and could require us to prepay indebtedness if our EBITDA decreases to a level that would cause us to breach this covenant. Future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants or may not be as favorable as those under our existing indebtedness.Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions or our financial performance deteriorate further, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we are not able to incur additional indebtedness we may need to sell additional equity securities to raise needed capital, which would be dilutive to our existing equity holders, or to seek other sources of funding that may be on terms that materially adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to pay future distributions. If we default under our credit agreement or another financing agreement, significant additional restrictions may become applicable, including a restriction on our ability to make distributions to unitholders. In addition, a default could result in a significant portion of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate their commitment to make further loans to us. In such event, we would not have, and may not be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.18Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by FERC, including rules and regulations related to the rates we can charge for our services and our ability to construct or abandon facilities. FERC's rate-making policies could limit our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines, including earning a reasonable return.Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by FERC, including the types and terms of services we may offer to our customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. FERC action in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. This regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to FERC's regulations. FERC can also deny us the right to remove certain facilities from service.FERC also regulates the rates we can charge for our natural gas transportation and storage operations. For our cost-based services, FERC establishes both the maximum and minimum rates we can charge. The basic elements that FERC considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. We may not be able to earn a return or recover all of our costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity activities, through existing or future rates. FERC can challenge the existing rates on any of our pipelines. Such a challenge against us could adversely affect our ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in our costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain our current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return.Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.There are a variety of operating risks inherent in transporting and storing natural gas, ethylene and NGLs, such as leaks and other forms of releases, explosions, fires and mechanical problems, some of which could have catastrophic consequences. Additionally, the nature and location of our business may make us susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to our assets in the Gulf Coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and severe winter weather. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, catastrophic personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial financial losses. The location of pipelines in HCAs, which includes populated areas, residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks.We currently possess property, business interruption and general liability insurance, as well as stop-loss insurance for our self-insured medical plans, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. The insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. The impact from health care reform efforts could impact our medical costs including the cost of any stop-loss coverage.Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of such workforce could result in the failure to implement our business plans. Our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. We compete with other companies for this skilled workforce. In addition, many of our current employees are approaching retirement age and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. If we are unable to (a) retain our current employees, (b) successfully complete the knowledge transfer and/or (c) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals.We compete with other energy companies.The principal elements of competition among pipeline systems are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. Additionally, FERC's policies promote competition in natural gas markets by increasing the number of natural gas transportation options available to our customer base. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of product we transport or store or, in instances where we do not have long-term contracts with fixed rates, could cause us to decrease the transportation or storage rates we can charge our customers. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that adversely affect the demand for our services, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other regulatory actions that increase the cost, or limit the use, of products we transport and store. 19Our established risk-management policies and procedures may not be effective, and employees may violate our risk-management policies.We have developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies and procedures that involve both our senior management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to assist us in managing risks. Our risk policies and procedures are intended to align strategies, processes, people, information technology and business knowledge so that risk is managed throughout the organization. As conditions change and become more complex, current risk measures may fail to assess adequately relevant risks due to changes in the market and the presence of risks previously unknown to us. Additionally, if employees fail to adhere to our policies and procedures or if our policies and procedures are not effective, potentially because of future conditions or risks outside of our control, we may be exposed to greater risk than we had intended.Possible terrorist activities or military actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the U.S. and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas, which could affect the markets for our natural gas transportation and storage services. While we are taking steps that we believe are appropriate to increase the security of our assets, we may not be able to completely secure our assets or completely protect them against a terrorist attack. Partnership Structure RisksOur general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us, have conflicts of interest and owe us only limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests.BPHC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Loews, owns approximately 51% of our equity interests, excluding the IDRs, and owns and controls our general partner, which controls us. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to BPHC. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are also directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between BPHC and its subsidiaries, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations:•BPHC and its affiliates may engage in competition with us;•neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires BPHC or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of BPHC and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of BPHC shareholders, which may be contrary to our interests;•our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as BPHC and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders;•some officers of our general partner who provide services to us may devote time to affiliates of our general partner and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates;•our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner and the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law;•our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders;•our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether an expenditure is for maintenance capital, which reduces operating surplus, or a capital improvement expenditure, which does not. Such determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;•in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;•our general partner determines which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;20•our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, and provides that reimbursement to Loews for amounts allocable to us consistent with accounting and allocation methodologies generally permitted by FERC for rate-making purposes and past business practices is deemed fair and reasonable to us;•our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates;•our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual obligations;•our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and•our general partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase (1) all of our common units if, at any time, it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units or (2) all of our equity securities (including common units), if it and its affiliates own more than 50% in the aggregate of the outstanding common units and any other classes of equity securities and it receives an opinion of outside legal counsel to the effect that our being a pass-through entity for tax purposes has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates we can charge our customers.Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by a majority of the owners of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples of these kinds of decisions include the exercise of its call rights, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its registration rights and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership;•provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership;•generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and•provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. 21Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to material amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential administrative, legislative, or judicial changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the current U.S. President's administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels, such as us, be taxed as corporations beginning in 2022. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the current U.S. President's administration’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On May 5, 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS issued proposed regulations (the Proposed Regulations) regarding qualifying income under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The Proposed Regulations provide industry-specific rules regarding the qualifying income exception, including whether an activity constitutes the processing or refining of a natural resource. The Proposed Regulations also provide that a partnership may treat income from an activity as qualifying income during a ten year transition period if the partnership received a private letter ruling from the IRS holding that the income from that activity is qualifying income. The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have requested comments from industry participants regarding the standards set forth in the Proposed Regulations. In 2013, we obtained a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that income from refining and processing natural gas liquids into olefins and from the transportation, storage and marketing of such olefins constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of Section 7704 of the IRC, and we would expect to rely upon this private letter ruling for purposes of the ten year transition rule contained in the Proposed Regulations.Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income 22tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to you. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions that we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year.Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income, including their share of income from the cancellation of debt, even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to such unitholders' share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability due from such unitholders' share of our taxable income. We may engage in transactions to delever the partnership and manage our liquidity that may result in income to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in “cancellation of indebtedness income” (also referred to as “COD income”) being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions or the value of the units. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisor with respect to the consequences to them of COD income.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease to such unitholder's tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.23Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted for our 2015 taxable year and may not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method thereafter. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan, (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining unitholders’ allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methods or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could 24have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year, and may result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two tax years within the fiscal year in which the termination occurs. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in thirteen states. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. 25Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.