ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Proposed Deep South Acquisition There are significant obstacles to completing the Deep South acquisition and we cannot assure you that the deal will be consummated. We will proceed with the Deep South acquisition only if (1) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination, (2) public stockholders owning less 7 Table of Contents than 20% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights and (3) regulatory requirements are satisfied. The SPA that we entered into with Deep South contains a number of other conditions to closing, some or all of which may not be satisfied. Many of these conditions are beyond our control and include, among others, the continued accuracy of representations and warranties in the SPA. We cannot be certain that we will obtain the necessary stockholder approval or that 20% or more of the public stockholders will not vote against the acquisition and opt to convert their shares, or that we and Deep South will satisfy other closing conditions. Accordingly, we may be unable to compete the Deep South acquisition in a timely manner and may be forced to liquidate. If we are unable to complete the Deep South acquisition, we may not have enough time to negotiate and consummate another business combination and may be required to liquidate. We must complete a business combination having a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination by September 27, 2007 (or by March 27, 2008 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by September 27, 2007 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by September 27, 2007). While our deadline for consummation of the Deep South acquisition has been extended to March 27, 2008, if the Deep South acquisition is terminated or we do not otherwise consummate the Deep South acquisition by March 27, 2008, we will be forced to liquidate our assets, unless (i) by September 27, 2007 we have executed a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete another business combination and that other business combination has not been terminated or (ii) the period within which to consummate a business combination is extended by an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares. If the September 27, 2007 deadline is extended in connection with another business combination, and neither the Deep South acquisition nor that business combination is consummated by March 27, 2008, we will be forced to liquidate our assets unless the period within which to consummate a business combination is extended by an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation as described above. We expect that it will be difficult to negotiate another business combination and satisfy the extension criteria with respect to any such other business combination before September 27, 2007. In connection with our ongoing due diligence investigation with respect to the Deep South acquisition, we expect that we will identify and discuss additional risks relating to the Deep South acquisition and resulting business in the related proxy solicitation materials. We are conducting an ongoing due diligence investigation with respect to the Deep South acquisition. As a result of this due diligence investigation, we expect that we will identify and discuss additional risks relating to the Deep South acquisition and resulting business in the related proxy solicitation materials. We urge you to read these proxy solicitation materials carefully when they become available. If we are forced to liquidate before consummating the Deep South acquisition or another business combination, our public stockholders may receive a liquidation distribution per share that is less than the initial $8.00 initial public offering price of our units, upon distribution of the funds held in the trust account, and our outstanding warrants will expire with no value. If we are unable to complete the Deep South acquisition or another business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the liquidation amount distributed to our public stockholders may be less than the initial $8.00 initial public offering price of our units. If such a liquidation had occurred as of June 30, 2007, the liquidation amount would have been $7.87 per share. Furthermore, the warrants will expire with no value if we liquidate before completing a business combination. 8 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by our stockholders upon liquidation would be less than the pro-rata share of the amount in the trust account at that time. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us or other liabilities. Although we will seek to have all third parties, including any vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with whom we engage in business, enter into agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will enter into such agreements. There is also no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations or transactions with us or that they will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the funds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that take priority over the claims of our public stockholders, and the per share liquidation price could be less than the pro-rata share of the amount in the trust account at that time, which could be less than the $7.87 per share liquidation amount that would have been paid if the liquidation had occurred as of June 30, 2007, due to claims of such creditors or other entities. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, certain of our directors, former directors and officers have agreed to be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of vendors for services rendered or products sold to us as well as claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not complete a combination with such business. These obligations of Messrs. Levine, de Jonge, Lauricella and Strenger and Ms. Butler will remain in place even if the period within which to consummate a business combination is extended by an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. However, these directors and officers may not be able to satisfy their obligations. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Even after our liquidation (including the distribution of the monies then held in the trust account), under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. We cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders in our dissolution could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders in our dissolution. If we do not, in a timely manner, consummate the acquisition of Deep South or another business combination and are forced to liquidate, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We anticipate that, if we are required to liquidate, our board of directors would adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation. The plan of dissolution and liquidation would be submitted to stockholders for approval. The submission of the plan for approval by the stockholders would require the filing of a proxy statement with the SEC. Depending on whether the SEC decided to review the proxy statement (a decision over which we have no control and cannot predict), the process from the adoption of the plan of dissolution and liquidation by the board until completion of the plan and distribution of funds to stockholders may take an extended period of time. We will not liquidate the trust account unless and until our stockholders approve our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Accordingly, the foregoing procedures may result in substantial delays in our liquidation and the distribution to our public stockholders of the funds in our trust account and any remaining net assets as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. 9 Table of Contents If we consummate the acquisition of Deep South, we will be issuing additional shares of our common stock. This would reduce the percentage of equity interest of our stockholders in our company. As a consequence of the issuance of over two million shares of our common stock in consideration for the acquisition of the securities of Deep South, our stockholders will experience immediate dilution with the Seller owning approximately 11.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately after the closing. Additionally, the Seller could receive up to an additional approximately $65 million in cash and additional shares of our common stock through an earn-out arrangement based on the future financial performance of the Deep South Companies over the two years following the closing of the Deep South acquisition. Furthermore, up to 7.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock immediately after the closing would be issuable under NAIL Acquisition Corp. I’s employee stock incentive plan to be established pursuant to the terms of the SPA. The presence of the foregoing additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market, or the perception that such additional shares may become eligible for trading, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we consummate the acquisition of Deep South, our outstanding warrants may be exercised, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 16,758,957 shares of common stock issued in conjunction with our initial public offering will become exercisable if we consummate the Deep South acquisition. We expect that these warrants will be exercised only if the $6.00 per share exercise price is below the then market price of our common stock. To the extent that the warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of a substantial number of shares issued on exercise of the warrants in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to an Amendment of Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Certain requirements and restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit business combination proposals to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination only if approved by a majority of our public stockholders and provided that public stockholders owning 20% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not exercise their conversion rights after voting against the business combination; • if a business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their allocable share of the amount then on deposit in the trust account, including the allocable interest thereon but net of taxes payable and amounts released to us for working capital; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to consummate a business combination is not signed within the time periods specified in this report, then we will be liquidated and distribute to all of our public stockholders their allocable share of the amount then on deposit in the trust account, including any allocable interest (net of taxes payable) thereon, and any other assets that we have at that time; and 10 Table of Contents • we may not consummate any merger, acquisition, asset purchase or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this report, including the requirement that the business combination be with one or more insurance-related businesses in which the fair market value is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of our initial business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that until the consummation of our initial business combination, the above requirements and restrictions will not be amended unless the amendment is approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares. Under Delaware law, any amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation must first be recommended to the stockholders by our board of directors. In the event that any of these provisions is approved by the requisite 80% of our common stock, those public stockholders (other than our initial stockholders) voting against the amendment will have the option to convert their shares into their pro rata share of the trust account at the time the amended and restated certificate of incorporation is amended. In connection with any vote required to approve an amendment to these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, all of our initial stockholders, directors and officers have agreed to vote the shares of common stock then owned by them, including any shares offered in our initial public offering or acquired following our initial public offering, in accordance with the majority of the shares voted by our public stockholders (other than our initial stockholders). Any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Stockholders who elect conversion at the time of the business combination vote may receive less than those who elected conversion at the time of a vote, if any, to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If our stockholders approve an amendment that extends the time to complete our initial business combination, we may incur more expenses or be subject to claims of creditors in connection with the completion of a business combination. While certain of our directors and officers have agreed to be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of vendors for services rendered or products sold to us as well as claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not complete a combination with such business, these directors and officers may not be able to satisfy their obligations. If our trust account were reduced, those public stockholders who do not elect to have their shares converted at the time of the amendment vote, but elect to have their shares converted at the time of the proposed business combination vote, may receive a lower per-share conversion price than they would have received on the earlier conversion. As a result, there may be an incentive for stockholders to vote against any amendment to extend the time to complete a business combination. Any amendment to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the procedures for consummation of our initial business combination may result in a substantial reduction in the funds held in the trust account. If our stockholders approve an amendment to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that pertain to restrictions and requirements in connection with our initial business combination, we would be obligated to convert to cash up to 20% of our outstanding shares in connection with such amendment, and up to an additional 20% of the shares issued in our initial public offering in connection with the vote on our initial business combination. If we were to amend these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and a substantial number of shareholders vote against the amendment and elect to convert their shares to cash, the resulting reduction in the funds remaining in the trust account may lead us to acquire a smaller business or to own a smaller percentage of the business we acquire, or to issue additional equity or debt securities in order to complete a business combination. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have an extremely limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company incorporated in 2005 with no operations to date other than organizational activities and our sourcing of a suitable business combination candidate. Because we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate a business combination with one or more insurance-related businesses. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of our initial public offering and March 2006 private placement of D&O rights held in the trust account) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, our initial business combination will occur. All of our directors and officers, other than Mr. Sroka, and their affiliates and/or their designees, own shares that will not participate in liquidation distributions and the D&O warrants will expire worthless in the event of a liquidation. Consequently, such persons may have a conflict of interest in determining whether Deep South or another target is appropriate for a business combination. All of our directors and officers, other than Mr. Sroka, and their affiliates and/or their designees own stock in our company. These individuals have, with respect to shares of our common stock acquired by them prior to our initial public offering, waived their right with respect to shares of common stock that they own or control to receive distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, purchased from us on the closing date of our initial public offering an aggregate of 1,700,000 D&O rights to purchase warrants (“D&O warrants”) having an aggregate fair market value at the time of purchase of $1,700,000. In the event of a liquidation prior to our initial business combination, these shares and D&O warrants will be worthless and the $1,700,000 proceeds from the issuance and sale of the D&O rights will be included in the funds that are distributed to our public stockholders. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting target businesses and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our management’s discretion in determining whether Deep South is appropriate for a business combination may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination, including the Deep South acquisition, are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interests. We may not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, and may be unable to secure additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our initial stockholders, directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a financial strategy similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be difficult for us to do so. Since August 2003, based upon publicly available information, approximately 117 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings. Of these companies, we estimate that only 32 companies have consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced they have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination. Additionally, five companies have agreed to dissolve and distribute their assets to shareholders. Accordingly, there are approximately 55 blank check companies with approximately $6.0 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan, although not necessarily relating to 12 Table of Contents the insurance or insurance services industry in North America. Furthermore, there are more than 40 additional offerings for blank check companies seeking to raise over $5.5 billion that are still in the registration process but that have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings in the future and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of these companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose or have a very broad definition of the industry they will target. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. Further, because only 57 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement for a business combination, this may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. Our directors and officers may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby limiting the amount of time they devote to our affairs. This could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our directors and officers are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific percentage of their time to our affairs. If our directors’ and officers’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time in excess of their current commitment levels, this could limit the amount of time they devote to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Although we believe no conflict of interest currently exists, our directors and officers may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Also, some of our directors are currently involved in businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Levine, our Chairman of the Board, is a senior adviser to Ampton, a private advisory and investment firm. Mr. de Jonge, our President and one of our directors, is a managing director of Ampton and de Jonge LLC, a private advisory and investment firm. Mr. Lauricella, one of our Executive Vice Presidents and directors, serves as the managing director of FL Advisors, LLC, an advisory firm to financial services companies. Mr. Sroka, one of our directors, serves as Managing Director of Corporate Solutions Group, an investment banking firm. In addition, Mr. Prentice, one of our directors, serves as a director of the board of the National Life Insurance Company of Vermont. Although Messrs. Levine and de Jonge are not aware of any fiduciary obligations they have with respect to any insurance-related companies, and while Messrs. Lauricella, Sroka and Prentice are not aware of any actual or potential conflicts of interest at this time, due to these affiliations, our directors may have obligations to present potential business opportunities to other entities as well as us, which could cause conflicts of interest. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. In any event, all ongoing and future transactions between us and any of our directors, officers, initial stockholders or their respective affiliates (1) will be on terms believed by us to be no less favorable than are available from unaffiliated third parties and (2) such transactions will require prior approval in each instance by a majority of our independent directors or the members of our board who do not have an interest in the subject transaction, in either case who had access to legal counsel at our expense. 13 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations depend upon a relatively small group of officers and directors, and our ultimate success depends on the continued service of these individuals. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with, or key man insurance policies on, any of our officers or directors. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us, including a detrimental effect on our ability to effect a business combination. We may use a significant portion of working capital in pursuing business combinations that are not consummated. There is no assurance the Deep South acquisition or any other business combination will be consummated. The investigation of target businesses and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments requires substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, actuaries and others. If we or the owners of a target business decide not to complete a specific business combination, any costs we have incurred for such proposed business combination, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. We may fail to consummate a business combination for any number of reasons, including events beyond our control. For instance, there is a possibility that 20% or more of our public stockholders will vote against the proposed business combination and exercise their conversion rights with respect to their shares of common stock even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the proposed business combination. Any such event would result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and effect a business combination with another insurance-related business. Our stockholders are not entitled to some protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, our stockholders are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Our directors and officers, their affiliates and/or their designees control a significant interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our directors and officers, their affiliates and/or their designees collectively control, directly or indirectly, approximately 17.8% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, on the closing date of our initial public offering our directors at that time and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, purchased from us an aggregate of 1,700,000 D&O rights, which automatically converted into 2,383,957 D&O warrants on July 19, 2006. The exercise of those D&O warrants may increase such persons’ ownership in us. Although these D&O warrants will not be exercisable until the consummation of our initial business combination, exercise at that time would further increase our directors’ and officers’ effective control of our common stock. This increase could allow the initial stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of our directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election, and our directors and officers, because of their ownership position, 14 Table of Contents will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our directors and officers will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination and may continue to exercise substantial control after a business combination due to their significant ownership. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect certain business combinations. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand in certain circumstances that we register the resale of their shares of common stock owned prior to our initial public offering and their D&O warrants and the shares of common stock underlying the D&O warrants. The holders of the majority of the shares of common stock owned prior to our initial public offering may elect to exercise these registration rights at any time after the date on which their shares of common stock are released from escrow (March 21, 2009). The holders of the majority of, collectively, the D&O warrants and the shares of common stock underlying the D&O warrants may elect to exercise their registration rights at any time after the date of the expiration of the lock-up agreement restricting the transfer of such securities, which will occur upon the consummation of our initial business combination. For more information, please see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions— Certain Relationships and Related Transactions — Registration Rights.” If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and D&O warrants to purchase shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 3,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (and potentially another 2,383,957 shares of common stock issuable to certain of our initial stockholders upon the exercise of the D&O warrants). The presence of these additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect, or increase the cost of, a business combination with a target business, as the stockholders of a particular target business, or incumbent or new managers of the target business, may be discouraged from entering into a business combination or working with us or may request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. This will be particularly relevant in the case of a prospective business combination for which our equity securities comprise a portion of the consideration. The American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) may de-list our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities have been listed on the AMEX, a national securities exchange, since the consummation of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the AMEX in the future. If the AMEX de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 15 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete the Deep South acquisition. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; • restrictions on the issuance of securities; and • the securities being deemed void from the date of inception of our company, each of which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds held in trust have only been invested by the trust agent in securities issued or guaranteed by the United States or money market funds meeting conditions of the 1940 Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the 1940 Act. As a result, we do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we do not anticipate and for which we have not allotted any funds in our budget. Some of our directors, including those who serve on the audit committee, may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in the best interest of us or our stockholders. Under the policies of the NASAA, an international organization devoted to investor protection, because all but one of our directors owns shares of our securities and all of our directors and officers may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would generally conclude that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement by us. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that our directors and officers may incur, and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction, if such reimbursement were to be challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. All but two of our directors have served as directors since the inception of our company; Mr. Prentice joined our board as of November 22, 2005 and Mr. Sroka joined our board as of September 13, 2006. Although we intend that the actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” this may not actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 