Item 1A. Risk Factors Purchases of retail apparel merchandise are generally discretionary and economic conditions may cause a decline in consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, particularly in discretionary areas, such as apparel, which have recently deteriorated significantly in the United States and many other countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by the current decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business that cause a decline in consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, decreased access to credit, reduced consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, acts of terrorism, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of fashion products, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. A decrease in consumer discretionary spending as a result of the current economic conditions may decrease the demand for our products. If consumer spending continues to slow down or decrease, we will not be able to improve our same store sales. In addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices, suffer significant product returns from our customers or drive us to offer additional products at promotional prices, any of which would have a negative impact on gross profit. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from our suppliers. The current global financial crisis may materially adversely affect the ability of our suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact consumer spending and our financial results. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our working capital for planned store improvements and to open additional stores in the manner that we have in the past. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the American Apparel’s products and on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, as a result of decreased revenues and working capital, we may be required to seek additional financing which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize such markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to consumers and businesses. We are not able to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. As a consequence, American Apparel’s operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. Disruptions in the global financial markets could adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing, including by affecting the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. Our liquidity may be negatively impacted if one of our lenders under our credit agreements or other debt agreements, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion, of our debt agreements. The current economic environment could cause our lenders, counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our debt agreements, to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for interest rates and foreign currencies, and to pay us amounts that may become due under other agreements or our counterparties might limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with the Company. Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness or pay capital expenditures, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. In addition, the credit market turmoil could negatively impact certain of our customers and suppliers which could lead to a decrease in demand for our products and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Further, market conditions have resulted in severe downward pressure on the stock and credit markets, which could reduce the return available on invested corporate cash and thereby potentially increase funding obligations, which, if severe and sustained, could have material and adverse impacts on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. American Apparel has significant indebtedness and a failure to generate significant cash flow could render it unable to service its obligations and may place it at a competitive disadvantage and limit its ability to pursue its expansion plans. As of March 13, 2009, American Apparel has substantial indebtedness, including $32.8 million of borrowings under its revolving credit facility and $80 million of borrowings under its facility with Lion (as defined below). The borrowings under its revolving credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% per annum, or prime rate (which rate can in no event be lower than LIBOR plus 2.5% per annum) plus 2.5% per annum, at the Company’s option, and the borrowings under its facility with Lion Capital LLP bear interest at 15% per annum (excluding debt discount), payable quarterly in arrears, in each case plus an additional 2% per annum if we are in default under such facility. American Apparel’s ability to service this indebtedness is dependent on its ability to generate cash from internal operations sufficient to make required payments on such indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our common stock. For example, our level of indebtedness may: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to use for operations, investments, future business opportunities and other general corporate purposes; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy; • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the retail industry; or • reduce our ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carry out our plans to expand our store base, product offerings and sales channels. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness contain, and our future indebtedness may contain, various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business, including limitations on 11 Table of Contents capital expenditures. See “—The terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our business activities” below. It is uncommon for companies involved in the retail apparel business to operate with such a high level of indebtedness due to the underlying volatility of this business. Despite the attendant risks, American Apparel may have to enter into new credit facilities, or possibly issue additional common stock, to finance its planned retail expansion. There can be no assurances that American Apparel will have access to any such financing on commercially reasonable terms or that it will be able to open its planned number of new stores in 2009 or beyond. If we are unable to gauge fashion trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for our market, our sales will be adversely affected. Some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our customer base. Merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers and on our operating results. Fluctuations in the apparel retail market affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be manufactured in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail apparel business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, we will be vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise production. If sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may lower planned margins. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe we are no longer able to offer the latest fashion. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our financial results by decreasing sales. We operate in the highly competitive retail industry and our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by the significant number of competitors in our industry that may compete more effectively than we can. The apparel industry is characterized by rapid shifts in fashion, consumer demand and competitive pressures, resulting in both price and demand volatility. The retail apparel industry, in general, and the imprintable apparel market, specifically, are fragmented and highly competitive. Prices of certain products we manufacture, particularly T-shirts, are determined based on market conditions, including the price of raw materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and Internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise, including The Gap, Urban Outfitters, H&M, Uniqlo and Forever 21. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger, have substantially greater name recognition than American Apparel and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and, therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. We face a variety of competitive challenges, including: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in diverse markets; • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers; • sourcing raw materials and manufacturing merchandise efficiently; • pricing our products to remain competitive while achieving a customer perception of comparatively higher value; 12 Table of Contents • providing strong and effective marketing support; and • maintaining high levels of consumer traffic to our retail stores. We also face competition in European, Asian and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains. Our success in these markets depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these challenging retail environments. If our international business is not successful or if we cannot effectively take advantage of international growth opportunities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The wholesale business competes with numerous wholesale companies based on the quality, fashion, availability, and price of our wholesale product offerings. These companies include Gildan Activewear, Hanesbrands, Russell Athletic and Fruit of the Loom. Many of these companies have greater name recognition than American Apparel in the wholesale market. Many of these companies also have greater financial and other resources when compared to American Apparel. If we cannot successfully compete with these companies, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of such personnel, or we fail to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. We depend on the efforts and skills of American Apparel’s management team, and the loss of services of one or more members of this team, each of whom have substantial experience in the apparel industry, could have an adverse effect on our business. American Apparel’s senior officers closely supervise all aspects of the American Apparel business, in particular the design and production of merchandise and the operation of the American Apparel stores. Because American Apparel had never operated as a public company prior to the Acquisition, the Company needs to enhance its management team, including those responsible over financial reporting, to address reporting requirements that come with being a public company. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified management or if any member of American Apparel’s management leaves, such departure could have an adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. In particular, we believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of Dov Charney. The loss of Dov Charney would be particularly harmful as he is considered intimately connected to American Apparel’s brand identity and is the principal driving force behind American Apparel’s core concepts and designs. He is also the driving force behind our growth strategy. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing areas, and other functions. In addition, if we experience material growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented design and marketing personnel in the apparel industry is intensely competitive, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, our growth will be hampered and our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely heavily on immigrant labor, and changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results. We rely heavily on immigrant labor. Adverse changes to existing laws and regulations applicable to employment of immigrants, enforcement requirements or practices under those laws and regulations, and inspections or investigations by immigration authorities or the prospects or rumors of any of the foregoing, even if no violations exist, could negatively impact the availability and cost of personnel and labor to American Apparel. In late 2007, American Apparel received a notice from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“ICE”) requesting to inspect the I-9 forms of the employees of American Apparel, Inc. In January 2008, American Apparel provided ICE with access to the 13 Table of Contents requested forms. American Apparel has not had any further communications with ICE since this request was fulfilled. If ICE officials find violations of immigration laws, they may take a variety of actions, including requesting additional information, issuing fines or warning notices, obtaining warrants and conducting a search of the workplace, requiring termination of certain employees or filing criminal charges. As a result of the ICE investigation, even if no violations are found, American Apparel could experience very substantial turnover of employees on short or no notice, which could result in manufacturing and other delays. American Apparel also may also have difficulty attracting or hiring new employees in a timely manner, resulting in further delays. These delays could materially adversely affect our revenues and ability to compete. If American Apparel is not able to continue to attract and retain sufficient employees, American Apparel’s manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results would be adversely affected. Our growth strategy relies in part on the opening of new stores and the remodeling of existing stores periodically which may strain our resources and adversely impact the performance of our existing store base. We expanded our store base by 78 net new stores in fiscal 2008. As of February 28, 2009, we have signed leases for an additional 9 store locations that we expect to open in 2009. Our growth strategy and the success of our business depends in part on the opening of new American Apparel retail stores, the renewal of existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets, the remodeling of existing stores in a timely manner and the operation of these stores in a cost-efficient manner. Successful implementation of this portion of our growth strategy depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our ability to: • identify and obtain suitable store locations and negotiate acceptable leases for these locations; • complete store design and remodeling projects on time and on budget; • manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan and remain in compliance with the capital expenditure covenant and other relevant covenants in our credit facilities that may limit our ability to fund such expansion plans; • manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; • avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores; • supply our stores with proper types and quantities of merchandise; and • hire, train and retain qualified store managers and sales people. Our plans to expand our store base and to remodel certain existing stores may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our revenues even though they increase our costs. Additionally, new stores that we open may place increased demands on our existing financial, operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause us to operate less effectively. Furthermore, it is possible that by opening a new store in an existing market, we could adversely affect the previously existing stores in that market by drawing away traffic from the previously existing stores. Our new stores may not be immediately profitable and, as such, we may incur losses until these stores become profitable. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores would adversely affect our results of operations. The market for real estate in desirable retail store locations is competitive, which could hamper our ability to open new stores. Our ability to obtain real estate to open new stores in desirable locations depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, which includes, among other items, projected foot traffic, square footage, 14 Table of Contents demographics and whether we are able to negotiate lease terms that meet our operating budget. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases from time to time. Failure to secure real estate in desirable locations on economically beneficial terms or to renew leases on existing store locations on economically beneficial terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our plans to expand our product offerings and sales channels may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. Our ability to grow our existing brand and develop or identify new growth opportunities depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives. Failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These plans involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including: • implementation of these plans may be delayed or may not be successful; • if our expanded product offerings and sales channels fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease; • if we fail to expand our infrastructure, including by securing desirable store locations at reasonable costs and hiring and training qualified employees, we may be unable to manage our expansion successfully; and • implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to expand our product offerings and our sales channels may be affected by, among other things, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and fashion trends. Our expansion plans could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business; any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability. Expanding our business internationally is an important part of our overall growth strategy and our success in this regard is subject to numerous risks, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into international markets. As we expand internationally, we need to effectively and efficiently open and operate stores in international locations. Our international growth will be limited unless we can: • identify suitable markets and obtain suitable sites for store locations; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • complete store design and remodeling projects on time and on budget; • hire, train and retain competent store personnel; • gain acceptance from foreign customers; • manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • manage and expand infrastructure to accommodate growth; • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan; • manage foreign exchange risks effectively; 15 Table of Contents • address existing and changing legal, regulatory and political environments in target foreign markets; and • manage international growth, if any, in a manner that does not unduly strain our financial, operating and management resources. We anticipate that we will incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining additional foreign operations. Costs may include, and will not be limited to, obtaining prime locations for stores, setting up foreign offices and distribution facilities and hiring experienced management. These increased demands may cause the Company to operate its business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of its stores. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. If we fail to maintain the value and image of our brand, our sales are likely to decline. Our success depends on the value and image of the American Apparel brand. The American Apparel name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation or those of our senior personnel were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales. We expect to experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins, which could cause our earnings to decline and make it difficult to gauge our growth at any specific period of time. Our inability to maintain recent levels of comparable store sales could cause our earnings to decline. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as gross margins and operating margins, at American Apparel’s existing stores. American Apparel’s comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations, which could cause a decrease in our earnings. Our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our customer base, managing inventory effectively, using more effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. Our failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and reduce demand for our merchandise. American Apparel trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. In the United States, American Apparel is the registered owner of the “American Apparel®,” “Classic Girl®,” “Standard American®,” “Classic Baby®,” and “Sustainable Edition®” trademarks, among others. The Company’s products are noted for their quality and fit, and the Company’s edgy, distinctive branding has differentiated it in the marketplace. As such, the trademark and variations thereon are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We intend to continue to vigorously protect our trademark and brand against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademark would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping areas in which they are located. In order to generate customer traffic, the Company locates many of its stores in prominent locations within successful shopping areas. Net sales at these stores partly dependent on the volume of traffic in those shopping areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of a shopping area’s other tenants to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the shopping areas. The Company cannot control the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping areas, competition with other retailers for prominent locations or the success of individual shopping areas. In addition, factors beyond the Company’s control impact shopping area traffic, such as economic conditions nationally or in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, changes in consumer demographics in a particular market, the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the shopping areas where our stores are located, deterioration in the financial conditions of the operators of the shopping areas or developers and consumer spending levels. The slowdown in the U.S. economy has negatively affected consumer spending and reduced shopping area traffic. A significant decrease in shopping area traffic could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, in pursuing its growth strategy, the Company will be competing with other retailers for prominent locations within the same successful shopping areas. If the Company is unable to secure these locations or is unable to renew store leases on acceptable terms—as they expire from time-to-time—it may not be able to continue to attract the number or quality of customers it normally has attracted or would need to attract to sustain its projected growth. All these factors may also impact the Company’s ability to meet its growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income. Historically, sales during the second and third fiscal quarters have generally been the highest, with sales during the first fiscal quarter being the lowest. Any factors that harm our operating results for the second and third fiscal quarters, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak selling season, we must produce and keep in stock more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak selling season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. The terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our business activities. The terms of our indebtedness contain, and our future indebtedness may contain, various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements include, or may include, covenants relating to limitations on: • dividends on, and redemptions and repurchases of, capital stock; • payments on subordinated debt; • liens and sale-leaseback transactions; • loans and investments; • debt and hedging arrangements; • mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; • transactions with affiliates; 17 Table of Contents • disposals of assets; • changes in business activities conducted by us and our subsidiaries; and • capital expenditures, including to fund future store openings. In addition, our indebtedness requires us to comply with certain financial ratios and maintain certain amounts of unused availability under our revolving credit facility. Such restrictions could limit American Apparel’s ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for unanticipated capital investments or to take advantage of business or acquisition opportunities. See “Risk Factors—Failure of American Apparel to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants under its financing arrangements could result in the acceleration of its debt payment obligations.” Also see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Debt Agreements”. Compliance with these covenants and these ratios may prevent us from pursuing opportunities that we believe would benefit our business, including opportunities that we might pursue as part of our plans to expand our store base, our product offerings and sales channels. Failure of American Apparel to remain in compliance with certain financial covenants under its financing arrangements could result in the acceleration of its debt repayment obligations. The financing agreements between American Apparel and its lenders contain certain financial covenants relating to American Apparel’s capital expenditure limitations, availability under its revolving credit facility and debt to EBITDA ratios. Failure of American Apparel to maintain compliance with any of these financial covenants can result in American Apparel being unable to borrow under its revolving credit facility, which it utilizes to access its working capital, and may adversely affect the ability of American Apparel to finance and continue its operations. Such a failure could also result in an increase in the interest rate payable under the financing arrangements and acceleration of the outstanding debt in its entirety, and may adversely affect the ability of American Apparel to obtain financing that may be necessary to effectively operate its business and grow the business going forward. Substantially all of our assets are used to secure our credit facilities, certain term loans and equipment leasing agreements. Our credit facilities are secured by substantially all assets of the Company including cash, inventory and accounts receivable, and our second lien term loan facility is also secured by substantially all assets of the Company. All leasing agreements are secured by equipment provided by the leasing arrangement. In the event of a default on these agreements, substantially all of the assets of American Apparel could be subject to liquidation by the creditors, which liquidation could result in no assets being left for the stockholders after the creditors receive their required payment. Cost increases in the materials or labor used to manufacture our products could negatively impact our business and financial condition. The manufacture of American Apparel’s products is labor intensive and utilizes raw materials supplied by third parties. An important part of American Apparel’s branding and marketing is that its products are made in the United States. The Federal Trade Commission has stated that for a product to be called “Made in USA”, or claimed to be of domestic origin without qualifications or limits on the claim, the product must be “all or virtually all” made in the U.S. The term “United States” includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories and possessions. “All or virtually all” means that all significant parts and processing that go into the product must be of U.S. origin. That is, the product should contain no - or negligible - foreign content. American Apparel meets the FTC’s “Made in USA” standard and from the knitting process to the final sewing of a garment, all of the processes are conducted in the U.S., either directly by American Apparel in its knitting, 18 Table of Contents manufacturing, dyeing and finishing facilities located in Los Angeles or through commission knitters, dyers and sewers in the Los Angeles metropolitan area and other regions in the U.S. If the cost of labor materially increases, our financial results could be materially adversely affected and our ability to compete against companies with lower labor costs could be hampered. Material increases in labor costs in the United States could also force us to move all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas, which could adversely affect the American Apparel brand identity. Similarly, increases in the prices we pay to the suppliers of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to compete and could force us to seek to offset increased raw material costs by relocating all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas to locations with lower labor costs. Unionization of employees at our facilities could result in increased risk of work stoppages and high labor costs. American Apparel’s employees are not party to any collective bargaining agreement or union. If employees at our manufacturing or distribution facilities were to unionize, our relationship with our employees could be adversely affected. We would also face an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. Accordingly, unionization of our employees could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs and financial condition and could force us to raise prices on our products, curtail operations and/or relocate all or a portion of our operations overseas. We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. We also are subject to numerous federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects (such as emissions to air, discharges to water, and the generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes). We are also subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that impose liability for the costs of clean up or other remediation of contaminated property, including damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. Certain of our operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which are or may become regulated as hazardous substances. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations regarding the use and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. 19 Table of Contents As is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from its properties or any associated offsite disposal locations, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of its properties, American Apparel may be held liable. The amount of such liability could be material. Our manufacturing operations are located and will be located in higher-cost geographic locations, placing us at a possible disadvantage to competitors that have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations overseas. Despite the general industry-wide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia, American Apparel’s textile manufacturing operations are still located in the United States, which is a higher-cost location relative to these offshore locations. In addition, American Apparel’s competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than American Apparel, which also places us at a cost disadvantage. Our competitor’s lower costs of production may allow them to offer their products at a lower price than American Apparel’s selling prices for similar products. This could force American Apparel to lower its margins or to compete more vigorously with non-price competitive strategies to preserve the Company’s margins and sales volume. Our reliance on operational facilities located in the same vicinity makes our business susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting the location of our facilities. American Apparel conducts all of its manufacturing operations in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. Specifically, it operates principally out of its 800,000 square foot facility in downtown Los Angeles, which houses its executive offices, as well as its cutting, sewing, and distribution operations. The Company also operates a knitting facility in Los Angeles, California; a sewing, garment dyeing and finishing facility in South Gate, California; two fabric dyeing and finishing facility in each of Hawthorne, California and Garden Grove, California; as well as a warehouse facility in Commerce, California and Los Angeles, California. As a result, the Company’s operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances. Southern California is particularly susceptible to earthquakes. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. Furthermore, if there were a major earthquake, we may have to cease operations for a significant portion of time due to damages to our factory and the inability to deliver products to our distribution centers. Third party failure to deliver merchandise to stores and customers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise. The efficient operation of American Apparel’s stores and wholesale business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from its distribution centers. Independent third party transportation companies deliver a substantial portion of American Apparel’s merchandise to our stores. These shippers may not continue to ship our products at current pricing or terms. These shippers may employ personnel represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income. 20 Table of Contents Elimination or scaling back of U.S. import protections would weaken an important barrier to the entry of foreign competitors who produce their merchandise in lower labor cost locations. This could place us at a disadvantage to those competitors. Our products are subject to foreign competition. Foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages, which can enable them to sell their products at relatively lower prices. However, in the past, foreign competitors have been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions in the form of tariffs and quotas. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations, and is therefore unpredictable. Given the number of foreign low cost producers, the substantial elimination or scaling back of the import protections that protect domestic apparel producers such as American Apparel could have a material adverse effect on our business and the financial condition and results of operation. Because we utilize foreign suppliers and sells into foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: • economic and political instability; • restrictive actions by foreign governments; • greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights, • changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect profit margins; • timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to American Apparel’s warehouses; • complications complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the exportation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes; and • complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. These and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the supply of our products, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all, inhibit our suppliers’ ability to procure certain materials and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. American Apparel is subject to regulatory inquiries, investigations, claims and suits. American Apparel is currently defending one sexual harassment suit and responding to several allegations of discrimination and/or harassment that have been filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or state counterpart agencies. In the event one or more of these matters are decided against us, we could not only incur substantial liability but also experience an increase in similar suits and suffer reputational harm. Furthermore, the previous insurer for the Company’s directors’ and officers’ insurance policy alleges that the sexual harassment suit and two of the allegations of discrimination and/or harassment are not covered by that insurance policy. We are unable to predict the potential financial exposure that could result from these matters. Our estimates of the viability of these claims or the financial exposure in which they could result could change from time to time as the matters proceed through their course, as facts are established and various judicial determinations are made. We could have material financial exposure, which would have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled “Business of American Apparel—Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of American Apparel’s pending litigation. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to request indemnification from AAI’s stockholders for damages arising out of the Acquisition has expired. At the closing of the Acquisition, 8,064,516 shares of Endeavor common stock issued to Dov Charney were deposited in escrow as the sole remedy for the obligation of the Old American Apparel stockholders to indemnify and hold harmless the Company for any damages, whether as a result of any third party claim or otherwise, and which arise as a result of or in connection with the breach of representations and warranties and agreements and covenants of Old American Apparel. The Company’s right to bring a claim for indemnification expired on December 12, 2008 and those shares are no longer subject to the escrow. The process of upgrading our information technology infrastructure may disrupt our operations. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory and production, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. American Apparel has performed an evaluation of its information technology systems and requirements and is implementing upgrades to its information technology systems supporting the business. These upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could—especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season—result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers. We have potentially adverse exposure to credit risks on our wholesale sales. American Apparel is exposed to the risk of financial non-performance by its customers, primarily in its wholesale business. Sales to wholesale customers represented approximately 30.0% of total sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. American Apparel’s extension of credit involves considerable use of judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and payment history. American Apparel monitors its credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on its customers. American Apparel maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon historical trends and other available information. However, delays in collecting or the inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A failure in our Internet operations, which are subject to factors beyond our control, could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage. Our online retail operations accounted for approximately 7.2% of sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results. Risks to online revenue include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage; • changes in required technology interfaces; • web site downtime; 22 Table of Contents • difficulty in recreating the in-store experience on a web site; and • risks related to the failure of the systems that operate the web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales and damage our brand’s reputation. Our auditors and management have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. American Apparel’s auditors and management have identified three material weaknesses in American Apparel’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, as further described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These material weaknesses relate to: (1) a lack of a sufficient number of adequately trained accounting personnel with appropriate expertise in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and lack of sufficient expertise to ensure that certain complex material and non-routine transactions are properly reflected in American Apparel’s consolidated financial statements; (2) in certain instances, the Company’s personnel, at both U.S. and foreign operations, did not perform adequate independent review of reconciliations and other processes; and (3) the Company’s world-wide financial information systems were not integrated and contained many manual processes that may prevent the Company from meeting regulatory filing requirements on a timely and accurate basis. The Company has also identified information technology control weaknesses in the areas of information security, end-user computing, systems program development and change controls. American Apparel’s auditors and management also identified five material weaknesses in American Apparel’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, which have not been fully remediated as of December 31, 2008. (See Item 9A for further details.) We cannot assure you that we will not have additional material weaknesses in the future or that we will be able to remediate existing material weaknesses. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, due to the identified material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. The existence of material weaknesses could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis and, as a result, we may be unable to timely meet our reporting obligations with the SEC. The existence of material weaknesses also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and subject us to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE Alternext US, the SEC and other regulatory authorities. American Apparel is currently being audited by government tax agencies regarding its operating activities in previous periods which may result in an assessment of a material amount, the payment of which may adversely impact American Apparel’s financial conditions and operations. As of December 31, 2008, American Apparel is being audited by Government agencies in various jurisdictions in regards to sales, VAT, income, and other taxes for certain previous years. At this time, no assessments have been issued and American Apparel cannot quantify what impact these audits may have, if any. Therefore, no provisions have been set up in the accounts of American Apparel. The Company is still in the process of making significant compensation decisions. Significant compensation decisions are made by American Apparel’s Board of Directors and compensation committee. Currently, only Dov Charney, Joyce Crucillo, our Chief Litigation Counsel, and Glenn Weinman, our General Counsel, have employment agreements with the Company. The compensation arrangements for other key officers and employees are subject to review and change from time to time, including in the near term, by the Board of Directors of American Apparel and its compensation committee. 23 Table of Contents There will be a substantial number of shares of American Apparel’s common stock available for sale in the future that may increase the volume of common stock available for sale in the open market and may cause a decline in the market price of American Apparel’s common stock. The consideration issued in the Acquisition to the American Apparel stockholders included 37,258,065 shares of American Apparel common stock that was issued at the closing to Dov Charney. The resale of these shares has not been registered and these shares are restricted securities under the securities laws. In addition, all of these shares are subject to lock-up agreements and cannot be sold publicly, in the absence of the Company’s consent, until the expiration of the restricted period under the lock-up agreement in December 2013 (which period may be shortened to December 2010 upon the occurrence of certain events). The presence of these additional shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of American Apparel’s common stock. In addition, American Apparel has outstanding warrants exercisable to purchase an aggregate of 17 million shares of its common stock, representing on an as-converted basis approximately 18% of the outstanding common stock (after giving effect to the issuance of the shares underlying such warrants). SOF Investments, L.P. – Private IV (“SOF”) holds a warrant, expiring on December 19, 2013, to purchase one million shares of American Apparel common stock at an exercise price of $3.00 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. In addition, Lion Capital (Guernsey) II Limited (“Lion”) holds a warrant, expiring on March 13, 2016, to purchase 16 million shares of American Apparel common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The Company’s stock price may be volatile. The Company’s stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of the Company or other companies in the retail industry or markets served by the Company. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. If we are unable to maintain listing of American Apparel’s securities on the NYSE Alternext US (formerly the American Stock Exchange) or any stock exchange, it may be more difficult for American Apparel’s stockholders to sell their securities. American Apparel’s common stock is currently traded on the NYSE Alternext US. If for any reason the NYSE Alternext US should delist American Apparel’s securities from trading on its exchange, and American Apparel is unable to obtain listing on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, American Apparel could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for its securities; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for American Apparel; • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and • a determination that its common stock is a “penny stock,” if the securities sell for a substantial period of time at a low price per share which would require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for American Apparel’s common stock. 24 Table of Contents Voting control by our executive officers, directors, lenders and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Dov Charney and certain pre-Acquisition stockholders are parties to a voting agreement, dated December 12, 2007 (the “Endeavor Voting Agreement”), entered into upon the closing of the Acquisition. The Endeavor Voting Agreement provides that after the Acquisition, the Board of Directors would have nine members, comprised of four persons designated by Mr. Charney (initially being Mr. Charney, Adrian Kowalewski, Robert Greene and Allan Mayer), four persons designated by the pre-Acquisition stockholders (initially being Mark D. Klein, Mark Samson, Mortimer Singer and Mark A. Thornton), and one person mutually designated by the parties (initially being Keith Miller). Pursuant to the Endeavor Voting Agreement, the parties thereto agreed to vote their shares of Company common stock in favor of such designees to serve as directors. The Endeavor Voting Agreement terminates following the election of directors at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held in 2010. In connection with the closing of the financing transaction with Lion, Mr. Charney and Lion entered into a voting agreement, dated March 13, 2009 (the “Investment Voting Agreement”), and the Company and Lion entered into an investment agreement, dated March 13, 2009 (the “Investment Agreement”). Pursuant to the Investment Agreement, Lion has the right to designate up to two persons to the Company’s Board of Directors and a board observer (or, if the Company increases its board size to 12, Lion has the right to designate up to three persons to the Board of Directors and no board observers), subject to maintaining certain minimum ownership thresholds of, or shares issuable under, the warrant (the “Lion Warrant”) issued on March 13, 2009, to Lion to purchase 16 million shares of Company common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. Lion Warrant or shares issuable under the Lion Warrant. Though no change to the existing Board of Directors composition is required under the Investment Agreement, the Company may consider changes in lieu of increasing the size of the Board of Directors. The Company currently expects to determine whether to increase its board size, or make changes to its current board structure to permit the appointment of the Lion designees, within 30 days after the closing date of the transaction. The Investment Agreement also provides that for so long as Lion has the right to designate any person for nomination for election to the Board of Directors pursuant to the Investment Agreement, the Company will not increase the size of the Board of Directors to more than 10 directors (or 13 directors in the event the Company elects to increase the size of the Board of Directors to 12 directors as described above). Pursuant to the Investment Voting Agreement, for so long as Lion has the right to designate any person or persons to the Board of Directors, Mr. Charney has agreed to vote his shares of common stock in favor of Lion’s designees, provided that Mr. Charney’s obligation to so vote terminates if he owns less than 6,000,000 shares of Company common stock (which number will be adjusted appropriately to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction). In addition, pursuant to the Investment Voting Agreement, for so long as Lion has the right to designate any person or persons to the Board of Directors, Lion has agreed to vote its shares of common stock in favor of Mr. Charney and, during the term of the Endeavor Voting Agreement, each other designee of Mr. Charney, provided that Lion’s obligation to so vote terminates if either (i) Mr. Charney beneficially owns less than 27,900,000 shares of Company common stock (which number will be adjusted appropriately to take into account any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction) or (ii) (A) Mr. Charney is no longer employed on a full-time basis by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and (B) Mr. Charney is in material breach of the non-competition and non-solicitation covenants contained in the Acquisition Agreement, as extended by a letter agreement, dated March 13, 2009, between Mr. Charney and Lion. Accordingly, the parties to the Endeavor Voting Agreement, the Investment Agreement and the Investment Voting Agreement are able to control the election of directors. Mr. Charney and the other parties to the Endeavor Voting Agreement beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 52.8% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and voting power (such calculation does not give effect to dilution as a result of any exercise of the Lion Warrant or the warrant (the “SOF Warrant”), issued on December 19, 2008, to SOF to purchase one 25 Table of Contents million shares of Company common stock at an exercise price of $3.00 per share, which exercise price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances). This concentration of ownership and the Endeavor Voting Agreement and the Investment Voting Agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the Company’s control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock or prevent the Company’s stockholders from realizing a premium over the current market price for their shares of Company common stock. Furthermore, Mr. Charney, the other parties to the Endeavor Voting Agreement and Lion may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote their shares of Company common stock in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share, as well as future cash flows. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower U.S.-based revenue. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local operating expenses. We utilize certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows. These hedges are designed to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. Factors that could have an impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include the accuracy of forecasts and the volatility of foreign currency markets as well as widening interest rate differentials and the volatility of the foreign exchange market. There can be no assurance that such hedging strategies will be successful and that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, while the hedges are designed to reduce volatility over the forward contract period, the contracts are not treated as hedges for accounting purposes, and therefore can create volatility in earnings during the period. The degree to which the Company’s financial results are affected for any given period will depend in part upon the Company’s hedging activities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 