ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to an Amendment of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Certain requirements and restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit business combination proposals to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination only if approved by a majority of our public stockholders and provided that public stockholders owning 20% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not exercise their conversion rights after voting against the business combination; • if a business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their allocable share of the amount then on deposit in the trust account, including the allocable interest thereon but net of taxes payable and amounts released to us for working capital; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to consummate a business combination is not signed within the time periods specified in this report, then we will be liquidated and distribute to all of our public stockholders their allocable share of the amount then on deposit in the trust account, including any allocable interest (net of taxes payable) thereon, and any other assets that we have at that time; and • we may not consummate any merger, acquisition, asset purchase or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this report, including the requirement that the business combination be with one or more insurance-related businesses in which the fair market value is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of our initial business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that until the consummation of our initial business combination, the above requirements and restrictions will not be amended unless the amendment is approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares. Under Delaware law, any amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation must first be recommended to the stockholders by our board of directors. In the event that any of these provisions is approved by the requisite 80% of our common stock, those public stockholders (other than our initial stockholders) voting against the amendment will have the option to convert their shares into their pro rata share of the trust account at the time the 10 Table of Contents amended and restated certificate of incorporation is amended. In connection with any vote required to approve an amendment to these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, all of our initial stockholders, directors and officers have agreed to vote the shares of common stock then owned by them, including any shares offered by in our initial public offering or acquired following our initial public offering, in accordance with the majority of the shares voted by our public stockholders (other than our initial stockholders). Any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Stockholders who elect conversion at the time of the business combination vote may receive less than those who elected conversion at the time of a vote, if any, to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If our stockholders approve an amendment that extends the time to complete our initial business combination, we may incur more expenses or be subject to claims of creditors in connection with the completion of a business combination. While certain of our directors and officers have agreed to be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of vendors for services rendered or products sold to us as well as claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not complete a combination with such business, these directors and officers may not be able to satisfy their obligations. If our trust account were reduced, those public stockholders who do not elect to have their shares converted at the time of the amendment vote, but elect to have their shares converted at the time of the proposed business combination vote, may receive a lower per-share conversion price than they would have received on the earlier conversion. As a result, there may be an incentive for stockholders to vote against any amendment to extend the time to complete a business combination. Any amendment to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the procedures for consummation of our initial business combination may result in a substantial reduction in the funds held in the trust account. If our stockholders approve an amendment to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that pertain to restrictions and requirements in connection with our initial business combination, we would be obligated to convert to cash up to 20% of our outstanding shares in connection with such amendment, and up to an additional 20% of the shares issued in our initial public offering in connection with the vote on our initial business combination. If we were to amend these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and a substantial number of shareholders vote against the amendment and elect to convert their shares to cash, the resulting reduction in the funds remaining in the trust account may lead us to acquire a smaller business or to own a smaller percentage of the business we acquire, or to issue additional equity or debt securities in order to complete a business combination. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have an extremely limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operations to date other than organizational activities. Because we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to consummate a business combination with one or more insurance-related businesses. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of our initial public offering and March 2006 private placement of D&O rights held in the trust account) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, our initial business combination will occur. 11 Table of Contents Because we have not selected the target business for a business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. Because we have not yet selected the target business for a business combination, there is no basis upon which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations, financial condition or prospects. To the extent we complete a business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our directors and officers will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or we may not have adequate time to complete due diligence. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we will be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination having a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach this deadline. Because of our limited resources and significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We have encountered and expect to encounter competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While there may be numerous potential target businesses with which we could effect a business combination using the net proceeds of our initial public offering and additional equity and debt financing, if available, our ability to compete in effecting a business combination with a sizable target business or businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent limitation will give others a competitive advantage in pursuing a business combination with some target businesses. Further: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination will delay the consummation of any such business combination; • our obligation to convert shares of our common stock into cash in certain instances may reduce the resources available for an otherwise agreed business combination; and • our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to CRT Capital Group LLC and the D&O rights and warrants we issued to the directors and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses, particularly in connection with a prospective business combination for which our equity securities comprise a portion of the consideration. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. In addition, because our initial business combination may involve the contemporaneous acquisition of several insurance-related businesses and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closing of one or more other acquisitions. 12 Table of Contents We are partially dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. We are partially dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to half of the interest earned on the trust account (net of taxes payable) (approximately $460,000 as of June 30, 2006), up to a maximum of $1,000,000, for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our initial stockholders, directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a financial strategy similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be difficult for us to do so. Since August 2003, based upon publicly available information, approximately 69 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings. Of these companies, we estimate that only nine companies have consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced they have entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination. Additionally, one company has agreed to dissolve and distribute its assets to shareholders. Accordingly, there are approximately 34 blank check companies with approximately $3.1 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan, although not necessarily relating to the insurance or insurance services industry in North America. Furthermore, there are approximately 53 additional offerings for blank check companies seeking to raise over $4.5 billion that are still in the registration process but that have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings in the future and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of these companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose or have a very broad definition of the industry they will target. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. Further, because only 34 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a letter of intent or a definitive agreement for a business combination, this may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. Our directors and officers may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby limiting the amount of time they devote to our affairs. This could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our directors and officers are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific percentage of their time to our affairs. If our directors’ and officers’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time in excess of their current commitment levels, this could limit the amount of time they devote to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. 13 Table of Contents Our directors and officers are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Although we believe no conflict of interest currently exists, our directors and officers may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, engaged in business activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Also, some of our directors are currently involved in businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Levine, our Chairman of the Board, is a senior adviser to Ampton, a private advisory and investment firm. Mr. de Jonge, our President and one of our directors, is a managing director of Ampton and de Jonge LLC, a private advisory and investment firm. Mr. Lauricella, one of our Executive Vice Presidents and directors, serves as the managing director of FL Advisors, LLC, an advisory firm to financial services companies. Mr. Sroka, one of our directors, serves as Vice President of Ardent Acquisition Corp., a specified purpose acquisition company, and Managing Director of Corporate Solutions Group, an investment banking firm. In addition, Mr. Prentice, one of our directors, serves as a director of the board of the National Life Insurance Company of Vermont. Although Messrs. Levine and de Jonge are not aware of any fiduciary obligations they have with respect to any insurance-related companies, and while Messrs. Lauricella, Sroka and Prentice are not aware of any actual or potential conflicts of interest at this time, due to these affiliations, our directors may have obligations to present potential business opportunities to other entities as well as us, which could cause conflicts of interest. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. In any event, all ongoing and future transactions between us and any of our directors, officers, initial stockholders or their respective affiliates (1) will be on terms believed by us to be no less favorable than are available from unaffiliated third parties and (2) such transactions will require prior approval in each instance by a majority of our independent directors (to the extent we have any) or the members of our board who do not have an interest in the subject transaction, in either case who had access to legal counsel at our expense. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that are or may become affiliated with our directors, which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our director, Mr. Prentice, with an insurance-related company and our intent to consummate a business combination with one or more businesses in that same sector, we may decide to effect a business combination with one or more businesses affiliated with him. Although we have agreed to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking, valuation or appraisal firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of any business combination with businesses affiliated with any director, potential conflicts of interest may still exist and, as a result, the terms of any such business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as it would be absent such conflicts of interest. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations depend upon a relatively small group of officers and directors, and our success depends on the continued service of these individuals. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with, or key man insurance policies on, any of our officers or directors. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a detrimental effect on us. Our ability to effect a business combination and to operate successfully as a concern afterwards will depend upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following such a business combination and may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which may adversely affect our operations. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully will depend upon the efforts of our directors and officers. We will depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our directors and officers. The role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be ascertained. 14 Table of Contents Specifically, our directors and officers are not obligated to remain with us after a business combination, and the retention of our current directors and officers may not be a term or condition in any agreement with respect to a prospective business combination. Although we expect one or more of our directors and officers to serve on our board of directors following a business combination, subject to continued election by the stockholders, some of our current directors and officers may not participate in the management of the target business on a day-to-day basis. Following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We may not have the ability to recruit additional managers, and any additional managers may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we employ after a business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not be correct, or these individuals may not elect to remain with us. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, as well as with U.S. securities laws, which could cause us to expend time and resources helping them to become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to regulatory issues that adversely affect our operations. We may use a significant portion of working capital in pursuing business combinations that are not consummated. The investigation of each target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, actuaries and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If we or the owners of a target business decide not to complete a specific business combination, any costs we have incurred for such proposed business combination, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons, including events beyond our control. For instance, there is a possibility that 20% or more of our public stockholders will vote against a proposed business combination and exercise their conversion rights with respect to their shares of common stock even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the proposed business combination. Any such event would result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and effect a business combination with another insurance-related business. It is probable that we will be able to complete only one business combination initially, which may make us dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Although we may seek to effect a business combination with more than one target business, our initial business combination must be with one or more insurance-related businesses in which the fair market value is at least equal to 80% of our net assets at the time of the consummation. At the time of our initial business combination, we may not be able to effect a business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating contemporaneous combinations involving more than one insurance-related company. Therefore, it is probable that we will be able to complete a business combination initially with only a single insurance-related business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: • result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of insurance-related businesses; • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. 15 Table of Contents In this case, we will not be able to initially diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. This would place us at a disadvantage relative to other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry, so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success would then depend upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses with which we effect a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth, if any, of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We have not yet selected a target businesses, and we cannot estimate the capital requirements for any particular business combination that we may pursue. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of target businesses or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we could be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative target business candidates. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth, if any, of the target business or businesses. Failure to secure additional financing could have an adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business or businesses. None of our directors, officers or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or after the consummation of, a business combination. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through the issuance of debt securities convertible into capital stock, to complete a business combination. This would reduce the percentage of equity interest of our stockholders in our company and could cause a change in control of our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100 million shares of common stock and one million shares of preferred stock. Immediately after our initial public offering, we had approximately 60 million authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, the warrants into which the D&O rights were convertible (“D&O warrants”) and the purchase option granted to CRT Capital Group LLC), and all of the one million shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no plans or commitments to issue any additional securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through issuances of debt securities convertible into shares of our capital stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: • may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; • would likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock or voting preferred stock are issued, which may adversely affect our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, for taxation purposes and could also result in the resignation or removal of our present directors and officers; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our financial condition. Although we have no commitments to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. Any incurrence of debt by us may: • lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations and our other expenses; 16 Table of Contents • contain terms that cause an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt, even if we make all principal and interest payments when due, if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of any debt documents, such as covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, and such breach is not waived or renegotiated with our lenders; • create an obligation to repay immediately all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; • hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any such debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such debt remains outstanding or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors; • by its terms prohibit or make it more difficult for us to pay dividends, if any, on our common stock; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, business combinations and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, business combinations, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Any of the above listed factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our business combination opportunities. An increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt to finance our business combination. Furthermore, if our debt bears interest at floating rates, our interest expense could increase if interest rates rise. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service any debt incurred, we could need to refinance all or part of that debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are forced to liquidate before consummating a business combination, our public stockholders will receive approximately $7.65 per share, which is significantly less than the initial $8.00 initial public offering price of our units, upon distribution of the funds held in the trust account, and our outstanding warrants will expire with no value. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the liquidation amount distributed to our public stockholders will be approximately $7.65 per share (without taking into account net interest, if any), which is significantly less than the initial $8.00 initial public offering price of our units, because we will already have incurred the expenses related to our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated cost of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire with no value if we liquidate before completing a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by our stockholders upon liquidation would be less than approximately $7.65 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us or other liabilities. Although we will seek to have all third parties, including any vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with whom we engage in business, enter into agreements with us waiving any right, 17 Table of Contents title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will enter into such agreements. There is also no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations or transactions with us or that they will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the funds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that take priority over the claims of our public stockholders, and the per share liquidation price could be less than approximately $7.65, due to claims of such creditors or other entities. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, certain of our directors, former directors and officers have agreed to be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of vendors for services rendered or products sold to us as well as claims of prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not complete a combination with such business. These obligations of Messrs. Levine, de Jonge, Lauricella and Strenger and Ms. Butler will remain in place even if the period within which to consummate a business combination is extended by an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. However, these directors and officers may not be able to satisfy their obligations. Our outstanding warrants, including the D&O warrants, may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of outstanding warrants, including the D&O warrants, could make our common stock a less attractive business combination currency in the eyes of a target business because such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. This factor could also discourage senior executives of the target business, or other management candidates whom we seek to hire, from staying on or joining the target business after a business combination. Accordingly, our large number of outstanding warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination using shares rather than cash or increase the cost of a target business. Finding one or more target businesses with available audited financial statements may limit the pool of prospective candidates for a business combination. We may not engage in a business combination with a target business if we cannot obtain audited financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for the target business. Our directors and officers must also provide stockholders with audited financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principals, of the prospective candidates as part of the proxy solicitation materials when seeking stockholders’ approval of our initial business combination. The requirement that any potential target businesses have available audited financial statements may limit the pool of target businesses available for our initial business combination. Our directors’ and officers’ interests in consummating a business combination to obtain reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our directors and officers will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds of our initial public offering not deposited in the trust account unless we consummate a business combination. The amount of proceeds available for our expenses was based on our estimate of the funds needed to fund our operations until March 27, 2008 and to consummate a business combination. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with a business combination or to pay exclusivity or similar fees, or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of a business combination that is not 18 Table of Contents consummated. The financial interests of our directors and officers could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interests. You will not be entitled to some protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of the initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, transactions in our common stock may become subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions, related transaction costs will rise and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Our directors and officers, their affiliates and/or their designees control a significant interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our directors and officers, their affiliates and/or their designees collectively control, directly or indirectly, approximately 17.8% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, on the closing date of our initial public offering our directors at that time and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, purchased from us an aggregate of 1,700,000 D&O rights, which automatically converted into 2,383,957 D&O warrants on July 19, 2006. The exercise of those D&O warrants may increase such persons’ ownership in us. Although these D&O warrants will not be exercisable until the later of March 21, 2007 or the consummation of our initial business combination, exercise at that time would further increase our directors’ and officers’ effective control of our common stock. This increase could allow the initial stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which 19 Table of Contents case all of our directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election, and our directors and officers, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our directors and officers will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination and may continue to exercise substantial control after a business combination due to their significant ownership. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand in certain circumstances that we register the resale of their shares of common stock owned prior to our initial public offering and their D&O warrants and the shares of common stock underlying the D&O warrants. The holders of the majority of the shares of common stock owned prior to our initial public offering may elect to exercise these registration rights at any time after the date on which their shares of common stock are released from escrow. The holders of the majority of, collectively, the D&O warrants and the shares of common stock underlying the D&O warrants may elect to exercise their registration rights at any time after the date of the expiration of the lock-up agreement restricting the transfer of such securities, which will occur upon the later of March 22, 2007 or the consummation of our initial business combination. For more information, please see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Registration Rights.” If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and D&O warrants to purchase shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 3,125,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (and potentially another 2,383,957 shares of common stock issuable to certain of our initial stockholders upon the exercise of the D&O warrants, which certain of our directors and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, purchased concurrently with our initial public offering). The presence of these additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect, or increase the cost of, a business combination with a target business, as the stockholders of a particular target business, or incumbent or new managers of the target business, may be discouraged from entering into a business combination or working with us or may request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. This will be particularly relevant in the case of a prospective business combination for which our equity securities comprise a portion of the consideration. All of our directors and officers, other than Mr. Sroka, and their affiliates and/or their designees, own shares that will not participate in liquidation distributions and the D&O warrants will expire worthless in the event of a liquidation. Consequently, such persons may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our directors and officers, other than Mr. Sroka, and their affiliates and/or their designees own stock in our company. These individuals have, with respect to shares of our common stock acquired by them prior to our initial public offering, waived their right with respect to shares of common stock that they own or control to receive distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers and the spouse of one of our officers, as designee, purchased from us on the closing date of our initial public offering an aggregate of 1,700,000 D&O rights to purchase D&O warrants having an aggregate fair market value at the time of purchase of $1,700,000. In the event of a liquidation prior to our initial business combination, those shares and D&O warrants will be worthless and the $1,700,000 proceeds from the issuance and sale of the D&O rights will be included in the funds that are distributed to our public stockholders. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting target businesses and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our 20 Table of Contents management’s discretion in identifying and selecting suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interests. The American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) may de-list our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities have been listed on the AMEX, a national securities exchange, since the consummation of our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the AMEX in the future. In addition, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the AMEX may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the AMEX de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The failure to effectively maintain and modernize a target business’ information technology and telecommunications systems could adversely affect a target business’ competitive position. Insurance-related businesses depend significantly on effective information technology and telecommunications systems. These businesses rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable insurance-related businesses to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt an insurance-related business’ operations or have an impact on its ability to evaluate and write new business. Information technology and telecommunications systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing information technology and telecommunications systems and to develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing technological change, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. Failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems could have an adverse effect on a target business’ competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. We may effect a business combination with an entity organized under the laws of any state, province or country in North America, by which we mean any state of the United States or the District of Columbia, Canada, Mexico or elsewhere in Central America or the Caribbean, including Bermuda. Any business combination with an entity outside of the United States would expose us to the risks attendant to operating internationally, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If our target company operates outside the United States, it will be subject to certain inherent risks, including: • exposure to currency fluctuations; 21 Table of Contents • difficulties in complying with foreign laws and regulations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and international expansion and, consequently, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If a target business is required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, its financial condition and results would be negatively affected. When we effect a business combination with a target business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the business combination may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable tangible assets acquired. SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which addresses the financial accounting and reporting standards for the acquisition of intangible assets outside of a business combination and for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to a business combination, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are subject to impairment tests at least annually. Other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. If we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of such assets. Because goodwill and intangible assets may comprise a large percentage of a target business’ stockholders’ equity, any such write-down could have a significant negative effect on our stockholders’ equity and financial results. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; • restrictions on the issuance of securities; and • the securities being deemed void from the date of inception of our company, each of which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in securities issued or guaranteed by the United States or money market funds meeting conditions of the 1940 Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the 1940 Act. As a result, we do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we do not anticipate and for which we have not allotted any funds in our budget. 22 Table of Contents Some of our directors, including those who serve on the audit committee, may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”) and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in the best interest of us or our stockholders. Under the policies of the NASAA, an international organization devoted to investor protection, because all but one of our directors owns shares of our securities and all of our directors and officers may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would generally conclude that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement by us. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that our directors and officers may incur, and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction, if such reimbursement were to be challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. All but two of our directors have served as directors since the inception of our company; Mr. Prentice joined our board as of November 22, 2005 and Mr. Sroka joined our board as of September 13, 2006. Although we intend that the actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” this may not actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock. If the private placement of the D&O rights was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the purchasers may have the right to rescind their purchases. Their rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate $1.7 million to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required time frame, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we have conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the D&O rights were not issued in compliance with the Securities Act and applicable blue sky laws. Although the purchasers have waived their rights, if any, to rescind their D&O right purchases as a remedy for our failure to comply with applicable law, their waivers may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. If the purchasers bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate $1.7 million with interest thereon, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required time frame, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Risks Related to Insurance-Related Businesses We may not be able to obtain government and regulatory approvals in connection with a business combination in a timely manner, or at all. This delay or failure may result in additional expenditures of money and resources, jeopardize our efforts to consummate a business combination within the required time frame and force us to liquidate. Business combinations with insurance-related businesses are generally subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents, and we will not be able to consummate a business combination with some types of insurance-related businesses without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental consents. Insurance laws and regulations of all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia generally require that, prior to the business combination with an insurance-related business, either through the acquisition of or merger with an insurance company or a holding company of that insurance company, domiciled in that jurisdiction, the acquiring company must obtain the prior approval of the insurance 23 Table of Contents commissioner of that jurisdiction. We may not be able to obtain this approval. Most other countries impose similar requirements on insurance companies and companies seeking to enter the insurance business. We may not obtain the required regulatory approvals. Any regulatory obstacles, which may include a requirement that we invest incremental equity capital to support the underwriting capacity of an insurance company that we acquire, in obtaining approval may result in additional expenditures or reduce anticipated benefits of a business combination. New or additional requirements or limitations may also be imposed, which could delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of the business combination. These delays may jeopardize or postpone completion of the business combination in the required time period and may force us to liquidate. An insurance-related target business will be subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if a target business fails to comply with these regulations, it may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect the target business’ financial condition and results of operations, which would adversely affect us. We will be subject to extensive regulation in the states and countries in which we operate. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of stockholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance or similar regulatory authority and relate, among other things, to authorization to write lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, rate and form approvals, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliate transactions, dividend limitations, changes in control, solvency and a variety of other financial and non-financial aspects of a target business. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. In addition, regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we would expect to follow practices based on interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe, based on our management’s experience, to be consistent with the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or the NAIC, has adopted a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital, known as “risk-based capital.” This system establishes the minimum amount of risk-based capital necessary for an insurance company to support its insurance business operations. It identifies insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer’s assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance-related business to maintain regulatory authority to conduct an insurance business. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we may need to demonstrate that we have invested sufficient capital to support the underwriting capacity of a target insurance-related business and to ensure that such insurance-related business has capital available to cover periodic spikes in liabilities in respect of its claims. In addition, changes in existing statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, as well as changes in the implementation of such statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, may affect the way a target business does business, its ability to sell new policies, products or services and its claims exposure on existing policies. State insurance regulators and the NAIC continually re-examine existing laws and regulations. These examinations may result in the enactment of laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that may adversely affect an insurance-related business. Moreover, the recent investigations of the New York State Attorney General and the SEC regarding certain practices within the insurance industry may lead to new laws or regulations or to changes in existing business practices and customs. 24 Table of Contents More restrictive laws, rules or regulations may be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult and/or expensive. Although the U.S. federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, financial services regulation and federal taxation, could significantly harm the insurance industry and us. Specifically, recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation addressing privacy issues, among other matters, is expected to lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years, which could result in increased expenses or restrictions on a target business’ operations. In addition, the U.S. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal incorporation, similar to U.S. chartered national banks. In response to perceived excessive cost or inadequacy of available insurance, states have also from time to time created state insurance funds and assigned risk pools, which compete directly, on a subsidized basis, with private insurance providers. Competition between a target insurance business and a state insurance fund or assigned risk pool in a state in which the target business operates could substantially affect the profitability of the target business’ operations in that state. In addition, a state fund could choose to reduce the sales or brokerage commissions applicable to a target business acting as an agent or broker potentially affecting the profitability of the target business’ operations in that state or causing it to alter its marketing focus. A target business will face significant competitive pressures that could cause demand for its products to decrease and adversely affect its profitability. A target business may compete with a large number of other companies in its selected lines of business. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including the perceived market strength of the insurer, pricing and other terms and conditions, the quality of services provided, the speed of claims payments, the reputation and experience of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating organizations, such as A.M. Best. A target business may compete with larger insurers, and many of these competitors will have greater financial and marketing resources than a given target business. The profitability of a target business could be adversely affected if it loses business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below its prices. Industry developments may further increase competition in the insurance industry. These developments include: • an influx of new capital as a result of the formation of new insurers in the marketplace and the expansion of existing companies in response to better pricing or terms; • consolidation in the insurance industry; • changing marketing and sales practices caused by the Internet; • programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas; and • insurance or risk-linked securities, derivatives and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles, which are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities. New competition resulting from these and other developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance products and services to change, which could adversely affect the ability of a target business to price its products at attractive rates and thereby affect its underwriting results and earnings. A downgrade in the claims paying and financial strength ratings of a target business may adversely impact a target business’ results of operation. If we enter into a business combination with an insurance company, our financial strength will be monitored by regulatory authorities and private companies such as A.M. Best. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. 25 Table of Contents A.M. Best focuses on balance sheet strength (including capital adequacy and loss and loss expense reserve adequacy), operating performance and business profile. A reduction in a target business’ performance in these criteria could result in a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating. Any downgrade of this rating could cause any brokers, agents, retail brokers or insureds with whom a target business works to choose other, more highly rated competitors, thus adversely affecting its business and results of operations. A downgrade of this rating could also increase the cost or reduce the availability of reinsurance to the target company. Changes in market interest rates or in the equity security markets may adversely affect the performance of a target business’ investments or the sales of its investment products and/or its profitability. A target insurance business will depend on income from its investment portfolio for a significant portion of its revenues and earnings. The performance of a target business’ investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of interest rates, equity security prices, real estate values, the performance of the economy generally, the performance of the specific obligors included in the portfolio (i.e., default and credit risk) and other factors that are beyond a target business’ control. Changes in these factors may negatively affect a target business’ net investment income. In addition, a target business may face significant liquidity risk if the maturity and the duration of its investment portfolio are not correlated with the liquidity requirements of its liabilities. To the extent that a target business is unsuccessful in correlating its investment portfolio with its expected liabilities, a target business may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have an adverse effect on the performance of its investment portfolio. If we effect a business combination with a life insurance and/or annuity company, then the target business would be exposed to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce the “spread,” or the difference between the amounts that it is required to pay under the contracts in its general account, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts, and the rate of return it is able to earn on general account investments to support obligations under the contracts. A reduction of its spread due to changes in interest rates or equity security markets may negatively affect a target life insurance and/or annuity business’ profitability. If we become a holding company of a target business or businesses, we will be dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which may be subject to dividend restrictions not within our control. If we consummate a business combination and become a holding company with operating subsidiaries, our principal source of funds would be cash dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries. The domiciliary states of our insurance subsidiaries will limit the aggregate amount of dividends the subsidiaries may pay to us. In addition, insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends. If our operating subsidiaries were unable to make payments to us or were able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to fund our operations, make interest or principal payments on indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock, although our board of directors does not currently anticipate declaring any stockholder dividends in the foreseeable future. If a target business is involved in the property and casualty insurance business, the cyclical nature of the business may adversely impact its financial performance as well as the market price of its securities. If we enter into a business combination with a property and casualty insurance business, we will be subject to the cyclicality of that business. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to alternate between periods of price competition and excess capacity and periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance depends on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty 26 Table of Contents insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Since this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of market participants and general economic factors, we cannot predict the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. These cyclical patterns could cause our revenues and net income, if any, to fluctuate, which could cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. Severe natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against a target business in the property and casualty sector, which may affect our earnings. If we enter into a business combination with a property and casualty insurer or re-insurer, our business will be exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other natural and man-made catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including volatile and unpredictable natural events such as severe winter weather, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and man-made events such as pollution, explosions and terrorist attacks. The frequency and severity of events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and sometimes cannot be reserved for adequately. In addition, there is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos, environmental, medical malpractice, general liability and other long-term liability claims because of significant issues surrounding the liabilities of insurers, diverging legal interpretations and judgments in different jurisdictions and aggressive litigation, particularly in the United States. These uncertainties include the extent of coverage under insurance policies, whether or not particular claims are subject to an aggregate limit, the number of occurrences involved in particular claims and new theories of insured and insurer liability. Given uncertainties surrounding the claims, a target business’ losses, if any, may exceed its claims reserves and have an adverse effect on our earnings. The continued threat of terrorism, the occurrence of terrorist acts and ongoing military actions could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of a target business. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions, as well as heightened security measures in response to these threats and actions, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in the investment portfolio of a target business. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, companies in which a target business invests may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any of these disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and potentially cause a target business to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if it were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under a target business’ insurance policies than it anticipates. If a target business is engaged in insurance brokerage, a reduction in insurance premium rates and commission rates may have an adverse effect on its operations and profits. Insurance brokers typically derive a significant part of their revenues from commissions on insurance products brokered. Insurance brokers have no control over the insurance premium rates on which these commissions are based, and revenues may be adversely affected by a reduction in rates. In addition, insurance brokers’ commission revenues could also be reduced by a decrease in the commission rates that insurance carriers pay for the sale of their products. Historically, premium rates have been cyclical, varying widely based on market conditions, including the underwriting capacity of insurance carriers, earnings by insurance carriers on their investment portfolios and competition in the marketplace. Health care premiums and commissions may also be affected by a slowing economy as employers seek ways to minimize employee benefits costs and reduce the size of their workforce. A period of decreasing premium rates may reduce insurance brokers’ profitability. 27 Table of Contents If the target business’ established reserves are insufficient, its earnings may be adversely affected. If we effect a business combination with an insurance company, in accordance with insurance industry practice and accounting and regulatory requirements, the target business will be required to establish and maintain reserves for claims and claims expenses related to any risk-bearing insurance businesses in which it engages. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. In the case of property and casualty insurers, these reserve estimates are based on an assessment of facts and circumstances then known, a review of historical settlement patterns, development in the frequency, severity and pattern of claims between the estimated and actual amounts, judicial trends, regulatory changes and inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. In the case of life insurance and annuity companies, reserves for future benefits and claims are based on a number of factors, including mortality rates, expected claims, policy persistency, future premium amounts and rates of return on investments. Because the establishment of claims reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, ultimate losses may exceed claims reserves, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. A target business may be unable to attract and retain brokers, agents and other distributors, which may be detrimental to its financial condition and operating performance. An insurance company may sell its products through one or more independent distribution channels, including general agents, brokers, wholesalers, financial institutions, financial planners, association groups, third party marketing organizations, and other independent producers and sales specialists, as well as through captive channels. Success in competing for sales through these intermediaries depends upon factors such as the amount of sales commissions and fees paid, the breadth of products offered, the strength of a target business’ brand, the marketing and services provided, an insurance carrier’s perceived stability and financial strength ratings, and the strength of relationships maintained with individuals at those firms. An insurance carrier’s inability to continue to recruit productive distributors of its products could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operating performance. Reinsurance and derivative instruments may not be adequate or available to protect a target business against losses, and a target business may incur losses due to the inability of its reinsurers and other loss-mitigating products to meet their obligations. In the normal course of business, a target insurance business will seek to reduce losses that may arise from catastrophes or other events that cause unfavorable underwriting results through the acquisition of reinsurance. Under the reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of the losses and related expenses. However, the target business may remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements may not eliminate the obligation to pay claims. In addition, a target business may be subject to credit risk with respect to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Even if a target business evaluates periodically the financial condition of reinsurers to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, its reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time their financial obligations become due and may not pay the reinsurance receivables that they owe to a target business or may not pay the receivables on a timely basis. Any inability of a reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to a target business could negatively impact a target business’ results of operations. In addition, the availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. Reinsurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates, and any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase risk of loss. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 