Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more material risks which we and our subsidiaries face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be material that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. All of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public should be carefully considered and evaluated before investing in any securities issued by us. Business Risks We need to obtain and maintain authority from PHMSA to operate at higher than normal operating pressures. We have entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which would utilize the maximum design capacity of our recently completed 42-inch pipeline expansion projects and our Fayetteville Lateral assuming that we operate those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 SMYS), which increases the pipeline’s peak-day transmission capacity from that available at normal operating pressures (up to 0.72 SMYS). In December 2009, we received authority from PHMSA to operate our 42-inch pipeline expansion projects at higher than normal operating pressures. If PHMSA were to withdraw such authority we would not be able to transport all of our contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipelines, beginning in mid-2010, or we could incur additional costs to re-obtain such authority or seek alternate ways to meet our contractual obligations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are seeking authority from PHMSA to operate our Fayetteville Lateral at higher than normal operating pressures. Unless we obtain such authority from PHMSA, we will not be able to operate the Fayetteville Lateral at its anticipated peak-day transmission capacity, and beginning in mid-2011 we will not be able to transport all of the contracted for volumes on that pipeline. In addition, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs to inspect, test and remediate pipe segments on the Fayetteville Lateral in order to obtain, or maintain if granted, authority to operate at higher than normal operating pressures or to develop alternative ways to meet our contractual obligations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. PHMSA retains discretion as to whether to grant, or to maintain in force, authority to operate a pipeline at higher than normal operating pressures. We may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 14% of the contracts for firm transportation capacity on our pipeline systems will expire during 2010. Upon expiration, we may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. Key drivers that influence the rates that our customers are willing to pay for transportation is the price differential of natural gas between physical locations, which can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, available capacity, storage inventories, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: · existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to our markets; · development of new supplies located near key markets; · the growth in demand for natural gas in our markets; · whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; · the current price differentials, or market price spreads between various receipt and delivery points on our pipelines; and · the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. 9 Increased competition could result in lower contracted capacity on our pipelines, decreased rates for our services and reduced revenues. We compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. Competition is particularly strong in the Midwest and Gulf Coast states where we compete with numerous existing pipelines, such as the Rockies Express Pipeline and the Mid-Continent Express Pipeline. We will also directly compete with several new pipeline projects that are proposed or under development, including projects originating in the Haynesville Shale area – more specifically, the Tiger Pipeline that will transport gas to Perryville, Louisiana and the Haynesville Extension Pipeline that will transport gas to the industrial complex in southeastern Louisiana - and the Fayetteville Express Pipeline which will originate in the Fayetteville Shale area and continue eastward to Mississippi. For new growth and expansion projects, we compete with other pipelines for contracts mainly with producers that would support such projects in order to transport their gas to market areas. At an industry level, the various natural gas supply areas compete against one another to reach optimal market areas, and natural gas, as a commodity, competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils, and other alternative fuel resources. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by competition or changing market conditions. The principle elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. FERC’s policies promote competition in gas markets by increasing the number of gas transportation options available to our customer base. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by our pipeline systems or, in instances where we do not have long-term contracts with fixed rates, could force us to decrease our transportation or storage rates charged to our customers. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that could significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our operating subsidiaries, such as a recession or adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. The regulatory program that applies to interstate pipelines is different than the regulatory program that applies to many of our competitors that are not regulated interstate pipelines. This difference in regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete a project when it is regulated at the federal level. We compete against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over us because of the absence of FERC regulation. In view of potential rate advantages and construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, we may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. Continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. The discovery of non-traditional natural gas production areas nearer to key market areas we access directly, or indirectly through third-party pipeline interconnects, may compete with gas originating in production areas connected to our system. For example, the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania, New York, West Virginia and Ohio, may cause gas in supply areas connected to our system to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may adversely affect capacity utilization on our systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. In addition to supply volumes from the Marcellus Shale, gas from the Rocky Mountains, Canada and LNG import terminals may compete with and displace volumes from the Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent supply sources in order to serve the Northeast, Midwest and East Coast markets. The displacement of gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are undertaking and may continue to pursue complex pipeline or storage projects which involve significant risks that may adversely affect our business. We have recently completed several pipeline expansion projects and we may also undertake additional pipeline or storage projects in the future. In pursuing previous projects, we have experienced significant cost overruns and we may experience cost increases in the future. We have also experienced delays in constructing and commissioning previous projects and may experience additional delays or cost increases in the future resulting from a variety of factors, including but not limited to the following: 10 · delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including delays in receiving authorization from PHMSA to operate at higher than normal operating pressures under special permits; · difficult construction conditions, including adverse weather conditions; · delays in obtaining, or high demand for, key materials; and · shortages of qualified labor and escalating costs of labor and materials resulting from the high level of construction activity in the pipeline industry. In pursuing current or future projects, we could experience delays or cost increases for the reasons described above or as a result of other factors. We may not be able to complete our current or future projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule, or at all. In addition, we cannot be certain that, if completed, we will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform, in accordance with our expectations. Other areas of our business may suffer as a result of the diversion of our management’s attention and other resources from our other business concerns to our projects. Any of these factors could impair our ability to realize revenues from our current or future projects sufficient to cover the costs associated with owning and operating these pipelines and to provide the benefits we had anticipated from the projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by our customers. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by us to them under certain NNS and PAL services. Our FERC gas tariffs only allow us to require limited credit support in the event that our transportation customers are unable to pay for our services. If any of our significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by us or contracted for with us, or to repay the gas they owe us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as contracts expire, the failure of any of our customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 7A of this Report contains more information on credit risk arising from gas loaned to customers. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For example, Devon Energy Production Company, LP represented over 11% of our 2009 revenues and we expect this customer to continue to account for more than 10% of our 2010 revenues. Additionally, we may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts and key customers on favorable terms. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating revenues and cash flows. Significant changes in energy prices could affect natural gas market supply and demand, or potentially reduce the competitiveness of natural gas compared with other forms of energy available to our customers, which could reduce system throughput and adversely affect our revenues and available cash. Due to the natural decline in traditional gas production connected to our system, our success depends on our ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas, which is dependent on factors beyond our control including the price level of natural gas. In general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: · worldwide economic conditions; · weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; · the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas; · the availability of LNG; · the availability of adequate transportation capacity; 11 · storage inventory levels; · the price and availability of other forms of energy; · the effect of energy conservation measures; · the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and · the anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. It is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices, however the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years and global economic slowdown would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. Downward movement in gas prices could negatively impact producers in nontraditional supply areas such as the Barnett Shale, the Bossier Sands, the Caney Woodford Shale, the Fayetteville Shale and the Haynesville Shale, including producers who have contracted for capacity with us. Significant financial difficulties experienced by our producer customers could impact their ability to pay for services rendered or otherwise reduce their demand for our services. High natural gas prices may result in a reduction in the demand for natural gas. A reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on our systems, reduce the demand for our services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire. Our revolving credit agreement contains operating and financial covenants that restrict our business and financing activities. Our revolving credit agreement contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement limits our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, or grant liens or make negative pledges. The agreement also requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined in the agreement) of no more than five to one, which limits the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur. Future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions or our financial performance deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we are not able to incur additional indebtedness we may need to sell additional equity securities to raise needed capital, which would be dilutive to our existing equity holders. If we default under our credit agreement or another financing agreement, significant additional restrictions may become applicable, including a restriction on our ability to make distributions to unitholders. In addition, a default could result in a significant portion of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate their commitment to make further loans to us. In such event, we would not have, and may not be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to FERC’s rate-making policies which could limit our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. We are subject to extensive regulations relating to the rates we can charge for our transportation and storage operations. For our cost-based services, FERC establishes both the maximum and minimum rates we can charge. The basic elements that FERC considers are the cost of providing the service, the volumes of gas being transported, how costs are allocated between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. While neither Gulf South nor Texas Gas has an obligation to file a rate case, our Gulf Crossing pipeline has an obligation to file either a rate case or a cost-and-revenue study by the end of the first quarter 2012 to justify its rates. Customers of our subsidiaries or FERC can challenge the existing rates on any of our pipelines. FERC recently challenged the rates of three non-affiliated pipelines. Such a challenge against us could adversely affect our ability to establish reasonable transportation rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in our costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain our current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. Additionally, FERC can propose changes or modifications to any of its existing rate-related policies. 12 If our subsidiaries were to file a rate case, or if we have to defend our rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or FERC, we would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in our cost of service is just and reasonable. Under current FERC policy, since we are a limited partnership and do not pay U.S. federal income taxes, this would require us to show that our unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. To support such a showing, our general partner may elect to require owners of our units to re-certify their status as being subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by our subsidiaries or we may attempt to provide other evidence. We can provide no assurance that the evidence we might provide to FERC will be sufficient to establish that our unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to U.S. federal income tax liability on the income generated by our jurisdictional pipelines. If we are unable to make such a showing, FERC could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by our pipeline subsidiaries, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. We may not be able to recover all of our costs through existing or future rates. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against any of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by FERC, in addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates we can charge for our services. FERC’s regulatory authority extends to: · operating terms and conditions of service; · the types of services we may offer to our customers; · construction of new facilities; · creation, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; · accounts and records; and · relationships with certain types of affiliated companies involved in the natural gas business. FERC’s action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, to construct new facilities, offer new services or to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. This regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project. The federal regulatory approval and compliance process could raise the costs of such projects to the point where they are no longer sufficiently timely or cost competitive when compared to competing projects that are not subject to the federal regulatory regime. FERC regulates the type of services we can offer, the terms and conditions of those services and has authority to review pipeline contracts to ensure that the services, rates and charges are just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. FERC has various regulatory policies upon which it relies to protect against undue discrimination. One such policy is to monitor the terms and conditions of transportation service contracts for any material deviation from the pipeline’s tariff. If FERC determines that a term of any such contract, at the time it is entered into or during the term of that agreement, deviates in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff, FERC can, among other potential remedies, order the pipeline to remove the term from the contract and execute and re-file a new contract with FERC, or alternatively, amend its tariff to include the deviating term, thereby offering it to all shippers. If FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts or other aspects of our pipeline business and finds material deviations or other violations, FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in penalties and/or ongoing compliance obligations. Should we fail to comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders administered or issued by FERC, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the environment which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and loss of revenues. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. These laws include, for example, the Clean Air Act; the Water Pollution Control Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act; CERCLA or the Superfund law; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws. The existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted in the future and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to our operations or facilities. 13 Compliance with current or future environmental regulations could require significant expenditures and the failure to comply with current or future regulations might result in the imposition of fines and penalties. Current rate structures, customer contracts and prevailing market conditions might not allow us to recover the additional costs incurred to comply with new environmental requirements and we might not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for certain projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, we may be required to shut down certain facilities or become subject to additional costs. We face risks associated with global climate change. Governments around the world are beginning to address climate change issues. Beginning in March 2011, we will be required to file reports with the EPA regarding greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities, mainly our compressor stations, pursuant to final rules issued by the EPA regarding the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from sources in the U.S. that annually emit 25,000 or more metric tons of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, methane and others. In December 2009, the EPA made a determination that greenhouse gases are a threat to the public health and the environment and may be regulated as “air pollutants” under the Clean Air Act. Additional government or legislative action may be initiated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions along with other government actions that may have the effect of requiring or encouraging reduced consumption or production of natural gas. Some states have already adopted laws regulating greenhouse gas emissions, although none of the states in which we operate have adopted such laws. It is anticipated that federal legislation, which could consist of an emissions cap and trade system, may be enacted in the U.S. in the near future. Depending on the particular regulation adopted, we could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations (for example, our compressor units). In addition, compliance with any new federal or state laws and regulations requiring adoption of greenhouse gas control programs or imposing restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide in areas of the U.S. in which we conduct business could adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport natural gas which would adversely affect our business. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations or result in increased costs. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. As a result, we are subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary use of land in accordance with the agreements that convey to us those rights. Additionally, if we do not comply with the terms of those agreements, our rights could be restricted which could disrupt our operations. We are subject to strict safety regulations which may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Under PHMSA regulations, we are required to develop and maintain integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along our pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what are referred to as high consequence areas where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. The regulations or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. Any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. We are also subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local residents. Should we fail to comply with PHMSA regulations, OSHA or state statutes and general industry standards regulating the protection of the health and safety of workers, or keep adequate records or monitor pipeline integrity or occupational exposure to regulated substances, we could be subject to penalties and fines and/or otherwise incur significant costs to restore compliance. 14 Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our natural gas transportation and storage operations such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems. Additionally, the nature and location of our business may make us susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to our assets in the Gulf Coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather and fires. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial financial losses. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. We currently possess property, business interruption and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. The insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or all potential losses. We are subject to litigation. We are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. Litigation is costly and time consuming to defend and could result in material expense. For a discussion of our current legal proceedings, see Note 3 in Item 8 of this Report. Possible terrorist activities or military actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the U.S. and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas, which could affect the markets for our natural gas transportation and storage services. While we are taking steps that we believe are appropriate to increase the security of our assets, we may not be able to completely secure our assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we might experience increased capital or operating costs to implement increased security. Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us, have conflicts of interest and owe us only limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. At December 31, 2009, BPHC, a subsidiary of Loews, owned a majority of our limited partner interests and owns and controls our general partner, which controls us. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to BPHC. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are also directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between BPHC and its subsidiaries, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · BPHC and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. · Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires BPHC or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of BPHC and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of BPHC shareholders, which may be contrary to our interests. · Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as BPHC and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. · Some officers of our general partner who provide services to us may devote time to affiliates of our general partner and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates. · Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner and the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are consenting to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. · Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. 15 · Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether an expenditure is for maintenance capital, which reduces operating surplus, or a capital improvement expenditure, which does not. Such determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. · In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions. · Our general partner determines which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. · Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, and provides that reimbursement to Loews for amounts allocable to us consistent with accounting and allocation methodologies generally permitted by FERC for rate-making purposes and past business practices is deemed fair and reasonable to us. · Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. · Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual obligations. · Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. · Our general partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase (1) all of our common units if, at any time, it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units or (2) all of our equity securities (including common units), if it and its affiliates own more than 50% in the aggregate of the outstanding common units and any other classes of equity securities and it receives an opinion of outside legal counsel to the effect that our being a pass-through entity for tax purposes has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates we can charge our customers. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by a majority of the owners of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples of these kinds of decisions include the exercise of its call rights, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its registration rights and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; · provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership; · generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. 16 We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash distributions to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flows and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current tax law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes. For example, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us would reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Recently, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that would affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Although it does not appear that the legislation considered would have affected our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 17 If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash distributions to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions that we take. Therefore, it may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and even then a court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, because the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, any such contest will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if such unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income and who will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not such unitholders receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to such unitholders’ share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from such unitholders’ share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, such unitholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholders’ tax basis in those common units. Distributions in excess of our unitholders’ allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units. Accordingly, to the extent a unitholder’s distributions have exceeded such unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income, the sale of units by such unitholder will produce taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and could be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a decrease in the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could decrease the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Although existing publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations, they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. 18 A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one fiscal year, and may result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. 19 Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in twelve states. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 