Item 1A. Risk Factors. The reader should carefully consider each of the risks described below. If any of the following risks described below should occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this prospectus before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Related to the Company Risks associated with business declines or disruptions in the travel industry generally could reduce our revenue. A large part of our revenue is driven by the trends that occur in the travel industry in the PRC, including the hotel, airline and packaged-tour industries. As the travel industry is highly sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels, it tends to decline during general economic downturns. Other adverse trends or events that tend to reduce travel and are likely to reduce our revenue include the following: · an outbreak of political or economic unrest in China; · a recurrence of SARS or any other serious contagious diseases; · increased prices in the hotel, airline, or other travel-related industries; · increased occurrence of travel-related accidents; · outbreak of war or conflict in the Asia-Pacific region; · increases in terrorism or the occurrence of a terrorist attack in the Asia-Pacific region; · poor weather conditions; and · natural disasters. 18 We could be severely affected by changes in the travel industry and will, in many cases, have little or no control over those changes. As a result of any of these events, our operating results and financial conditions could be materially and adversely affected. Loss of key personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the services of our senior management team. The permanent loss for any of the key executives could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals residing in the PRC with very limited English skills. Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals born and raised in the PRC. As a result of differences in culture, educational background and business experiences, our management may analyze, evaluate and present business opportunities and results of operations differently from the way they are analyzed, evaluated and presented by management teams of public companies in Europe and the United States. In addition, our management has very limited skills in English. Consequently, it is possible that our management team will emphasize or fail to emphasize aspects of our business that might customarily be emphasized in a different manner by comparable public companies from different geographical and political areas. Our management is not familiar with the United States securities laws. Our management and the former owners of the businesses we acquire are generally unfamiliar with the requirements of the United States securities laws and may not appreciate the need to devote the resources necessary to comply with such laws. A failure to adequately respond to applicable securities laws could lead to investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory authorities that could be costly, divert management's attention and disrupt our business. Our operating history is not an adequate basis to judge our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies in evolving industries such as the travel service industry in the PRC. Some of the risks relate to our ability to: · attract and retain customers and encourage our customers to engage in repeat transactions; · retain our existing agreements with travel suppliers such as hotels and airlines and to expand our service offerings on satisfactory terms with our travel suppliers; · operate, support, expand and develop our operations, our call center, our website, and our communications and other systems; · diversify our sources of revenue; · maintain effective control of our expenses; and · respond to changes in our regulatory environment. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially affected in an adverse manner. 19 The travel industry in China is seasonal. Our business travel operations experience seasonal fluctuations, reflecting seasonal variations in demand for travel services. During the first quarter, demand for travel services generally declines in the PRC and the number of bookings flattens or decreases, in part due to a slowdown in business activity during the Chinese New Year holiday. Demand for travel services generally peaks during the second half of the year and there may be seasonal fluctuations in allocations of travel services made available to us by travel suppliers. Consequently, our revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our business depends on the technology infrastructure of third parties. We rely on third-party computer systems and other service providers, including the computerized reservation systems of airlines and hotels to make reservations and confirmations. Other third parties provide, for instance, our back-up data center, telecommunications access lines, significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance service and air-ticket delivery. Any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have not and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our Common Stock. We have paid no dividends on our Common Stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business plan. As an investor, you should take note of the fact that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. We will incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance requirements. As a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together with rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and applicable market regulators. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2007, we must perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if our accountants later identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other applicable regulatory authorities. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to common stock holders. Our Amended and Restated Articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred shares which may be issued with dividend, liquidation, voting and redemption rights senior to our Common Stock without prior approval by the stockholders. The Preferred Stock may be issued for such consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may issue such shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, with such designations, preferences and rights or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as shall be stated in the resolution of resolutions. 20 The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock may be issued quickly with terms calculated to discourage, make more difficult, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or make removal of management more difficult. As a result, the Board of Directors' ability to issue preferred stock may discourage the potential hostile acquirer, possibly resulting in beneficial negotiations. Negotiating with an unfriendly acquirer may result in, among other things, terms more favorable to us and our stockholders. Conversely, the issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect any market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the Common Stock. We presently have no plans to issue any preferred stock. The issuance of shares through our stock compensation plans may dilute the value of existing stockholders and may affect the market price of our stock. We may use stock options, stock grants and other equity-based incentives, to provide motivation and compensation to our officers, employees and key independent consultants. The award of any such incentives will result in an immediate and potentially substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could result in a decline in the value of our stock price. The exercise of these options and the sale of the underlying shares of common stock and the sale of stock issued pursuant to stock grants may have an adverse effect upon the price of our stock. Risks Related to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China It may be difficult for our stockholders to enforce their rights against the Company or its officers or directors. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and some of our directors and all of our executive officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the People's Republic of China. In addition, our operating subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. You will find it difficult to enforce your legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the People's Republic of China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in the courts of the People's Republic of China. In addition, it is unclear if extradition treaties in effect between the United States and the People's Republic of China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. Our business operations take place primarily in the PRC. Because Chinese laws, regulations and policies are continually changing, our operations will face numerous risks. Because our operations primarily take place outside of the United States and are subject to Chinese laws, regulations and policies affecting any change of Chinese laws may adversely affect our business, such as exchange controls and currency restrictions, currency fluctuations and devaluations, changes in local economic conditions, changes in Chinese laws and regulations, exposure to possible expropriation or other Chinese government actions, and unsettled political conditions. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. China's economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including substantial governmental regulation, development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, significant restrictions on property rights, taxation levels, and permitted allocation of resources. While the People's Republic of China economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The government of the People's Republic of China has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources, which may or may not achieve the desired results or stated goals. Some of these measures may benefit the overall economy of People's Republic of China, but may also have a negative effect on us or on the economy in general. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the government of the People's Republic of China has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in the People’s Republic of China, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Limitations on Chinese economic market reforms may discourage foreign investment in Chinese businesses. The value of investments in Chinese businesses could be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in China. The economic reforms in China in recent years are regarded by China's central government as a way to introduce economic market forces into China. Given the overriding desire of the central government leadership to maintain stability in China amid rapid social and economic changes in the country, the economic market reforms of recent years could be slowed, or even reversed. We face economic risks in doing business in the PRC. As a developing nation, the PRC's economy is more volatile than that of developed Western industrial economies. It differs significantly from that of the U.S. or a Western European country in such respects as structure, level of development, capital reinvestment, resource allocation and self-sufficiency. Only in recent years has the Chinese economy moved from what had been a command economy through the 1970s to one that during the 1990s encouraged substantial private economic activity. In 1993, the Constitution of China was amended to reinforce such economic reforms. The trends of the 1990s indicate that future policies of the Chinese government will emphasize greater utilization of market forces. For example, in 1999 the Government announced plans to amend the Chinese Constitution to recognize private property, although private business will officially remain subordinated to the state-owned companies, which are the mainstay of the Chinese economy. However, there can be no assurance that, under some circumstances, the government's pursuit of economic reforms will not be restrained or curtailed. Actions by the central government of the PRC could have a significant adverse effect on economic conditions in the country as a whole and on the economic prospects for our Chinese operations. Any slowdown of economic growth in the PRC could have a negative effect on our business. There can be no assurance that the growth of the economy in the PRC will continue or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. Our online business relies on the existence of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure for continued growth of China's internet market. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in the PRC, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through a network owned by China Netcom under the regulatory supervision of China's Ministry of Information Industry. In addition, the national networks in the PRC connect to the Internet through a government-controlled international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and China Netcom to provide data communications capacity, primarily through local telecommunications lines. We cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be further developed. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in the PRC may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the Renminbi depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. However, a substantial portion of our assets and revenues are denominated in the Chinese currency, Renminbi, commonly referred to as RMB. Our assets and revenues expressed in our U.S. dollar financial statements will decline in value of the Renminbi depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar. Any such depreciation could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Very limited hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and we do not intend to engage in any such transactions. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. Dollars. 22 We may not be able to freely convert Renminbi into foreign currency. A portion of our revenues and operating expenses will be denominated in Renminbi while a portion of our capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. Under current Chinese regulations, the payment of dividends, trade and service-related foreign transactions to a foreign investor of a foreign-invested enterprise is treated as a "current account" payment for which the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange is not required. However, in order to distribute dividends we may be required to file documentation to a designated foreign exchange bank. The Bank must certify that all requirements have been met, such as payment of taxes, directors' approval and a capital verification report issued by an accounting firm. If a foreign-invested enterprise dissolves, a return of capital, which includes foreign direct investment, is treated as a "capital account" payment. This typically requires approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchanges' in addition to the filing of documentation. We may currently convert Renminbi for transactions under the "current account" without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange for settlement of "current account" transactions, including payment of dividends, by providing commercial documents evidencing these transactions. They may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts (subject to a ceiling approved by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant Chinese governmental authorities may limit or eliminate the ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Such change of policy would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National People’s Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the "lawful rights and interests" of foreign investors in the PRC. However, the PRC's system of laws is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in the PRC are still rudimentary, and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in the PRC lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. The PRC's legal system is based on written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that is required to be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may be varied to reflect domestic political changes. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. However, the trend of legislation over the last 20 years has significantly enhanced the protection of foreign investment and allowed for more control by foreign parties of their investments in Chinese enterprises. There can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting the PRC’s political, economic or social life, will not affect the Chinese government's ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The practical effect of the People’s Republic of China legal system on our business operations in the PRC can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate Articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are not qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the several states. Similarly, the People’s Republic of China accounting laws mandate accounting practices, which are not consistent with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The PRC's accounting laws require that an annual "statutory audit" be performed in accordance with the PRC accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises are maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the People’s Republic of China Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designate financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. Second, while the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than United States procedures, the Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies, which enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Generally, the Articles of Association provide that all business disputes pertaining to Foreign Invested Enterprises are to be resolved by the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm, Sweden, applying Chinese substantive law. Any award rendered by this arbitration tribunal is, by the express terms of the respective Articles of Association, enforceable in accordance with the "United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (1958)." Therefore, as a practical matter, although no assurances can be given, the Chinese legal infrastructure, while different in operation from its United States counterpart, should not present any significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. 23 Risks Related to the Company's Corporate Structure The People's Republic of China ("PRC") laws and regulations governing our business and the validity of certain contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions which could result in significant disruptions to our opertions and/or our ability to generate revenues. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our vendors and customers. We are considered a foreign person or foreign enterprise under Chinese law. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our business. We cannot assure our shareholders that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 