Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business We only recently commenced our commercial operations, have a very limited operating history. We were incorporated in June 2003 and only recently completed the development of our first phones and secured our initial strategic relationships with communications service and manufacturing service providers. We 10 have only recently received our first purchase orders and made initial shipments of our phones in September 2005. We generated revenues of $3,100,177 and $0, respectively, for the years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. Revenue from the sales of our phones is recognized when title and risk of loss transfer to our retail customers in accordance with the terms of an agreement, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met based on our revenue policy. We have a very limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business strategy or future prospects. Our ability to generate revenues going forward that are capable of supporting our operations without financing sources will depend on whether we can successfully commercialize our phones and make the transition from a development stage company to an operating company. We may not achieve and/or sustain profitability. As we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we may encounter many expenses, delays, problems and difficulties that we have not anticipated and for which we have not planned. The agreement with one of our strategic partners that provide the communications services accessible through our phones require us to meet certain minimum requirements, which, if not met, could lead to our loss of certain material rights. Under our agreement with IDT, users of our phones must activate at least 150,000 accounts by December31, 2006. If we do not meet this requirement, IDT, in its discretion, may terminate our agreement or renegotiate its terms. Although arrangements similar to those we currently have with our strategic partners may be readily available from other communications providers, we cannot assure you that we would be able to secure such alternate arrangements on a timely basis or at all or efficiently configure our phones to work seamlessly with such services. Our failure to maintain our agreement with IDT or to secure alternate arrangements with other communications service providers if needed on substantially similar terms could materially adversely affect our ability to favorably price our offerings to customers and could harm our operating margins and financial results. If we are unable to effectively manage the transition from development stage to commercial operations, our financial results will be negatively affected. For the period from our inception in June 2003 through June 30, 2006, we have incurred aggregate net losses of $5,933,352, inclusive of a non-cash charges of $2,424,366 resulting from the amortization of the carrying value of the original issue discount due to the immediate conversion upon our initial public offering of the notes issued in our prior private placements into shares of common stock and the amortization of the carrying value of debt issuance costs. Our losses are expected to increase in the short term as we commence full scale manufacturing, marketing and deployment of our phone/service bundles and transition from a development stage company to an operating company. As we make such transition, we expect our business to grow significantly in size and complexity. This growth is expected to place significant additional demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. As a result, we will need to expend additional funds to secure necessary assets and hire additional qualified personnel for our marketing activities, for the development of appropriate control systems and for the expansion of our information technology and operating infrastructures. Our inability to secure additional resources and personnel, as and when needed, or manage our growth effectively, if and when it occurs, would significantly hinder our transition to an operating company, as well as diminish our prospects of generating revenues and, ultimately, achieving profitability. Our failure to quickly and positively distinguish our phone/service bundles from other available communications solutions could limit the adoption curve associated with their market acceptance and negatively affect our operations. We may be slow to achieve, or may never achieve, market acceptance for our phone/service bundles. Failure to distinguish our phones and services from competing communications solutions would hinder market acceptance of our phone/service bundles. Meaningful numbers of customers may not be willing to adopt our phones and services until they have been proven, both initially and over time, to be viable communications solutions. There is also no way to determine the adoption curve that will be associated with our phone/service bundles. Non-acceptance or delayed acceptance of our phones and/or services could force reductions in contemplated sales prices of our phones, reduce our overall sales and gross margins and negatively affect our operations and prospects. 11 We may not be able to meet our future capital requirements solely through revenues generated from our operations, and the cost of additional equity or debt capital could be prohibitive or result in dilution to existing securityholders. Our business model is capital intensive, requiring significant expenditures ahead of projected revenues. Based on our current operating plan, we anticipate that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, together with anticipated revenues from operations and accounts receivable financing that we believe will be available to us, will allow us to meet our cash requirements until at least December 2007. If revenues from operations are not sufficient to meet all of our capital needs after such time, we will need to obtain additional sources of capital. Further, if the assumptions currently underlying our business plan prove incorrect, we may need to seek additional financing prior to that time. In addition, if and when we achieve initial market acceptance for our initial phone/service bundles, we may desire to accelerate our growth to take advantage of increasing demand. Accordingly, we may wish to raise additional capital to offset increased capital expenditures and costs associated with accelerated growth. Any source of additional capital could be in the form of public or private equity or debt financing. Such financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If additional capital is needed and is either unavailable or cost prohibitive, we may need to change our business strategy or reduce or curtail our operations. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our securityholders will experience dilution. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by our incurrence of debt. In order to finance the potential growth of our business, we may incur debt, including loans or convertible debt financing, in the future. A high level of debt, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions related to accessing certain sources of funding, poor business performance or lower than expected cash inflows could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund the operation of our business. Other effects of a high level of debt include the following: · we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future or accessing other sources of funding; · we may need to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash available to finance our operations and other business activities; · a high debt level, arduous or restrictive terms and conditions, or lower than expected cash flows would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and · if operating cash flows are not sufficient to meet our operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service requirements as they become due, we may be required, in order to meet our debt service obligations, to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new phones, sell assets and/or forego business opportunities. Our inability to establish cost-effective sales channels would negatively affect our revenue potential. While we have secured approved vendor status with numerous national and regional retailers, there is no obligation for these retailers to purchase our phone/service bundles or open their distribution channels to us. We currently have only limited internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize our phones and services, we will have to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure and/or rely on third parties to perform these functions. To market directly, we will have to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise, which would require the dedication of significant capital, management resources and time. We could also be required to expend significant capital and other resources in developing third-party distribution channels. Further, any agreement to sell our phones and services through a third party could hamper our ability to sell our phones and services to that third party’s competitors. We may not be able to establish an appropriate sales force or make adequate third-party distribution arrangements. Our failure to do so would limit our ability to expand sales and would negatively affect our operations, financial results and long-term growth. 12 Failure to obtain satisfactory performance from our strategic and contract manufacturing partners and other third party vendors on whom we will be dependent for our phones and services could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs and lose credibility in the market place. We rely on third-party sources to manufacture our phones and on third-party communications service providers to provide users of our phones with communications services. The failure of any of these third party providers to perform satisfactorily or the loss of any of them could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, lose sales and expose us to product and service quality issues. In turn, this could damage our relationships with customers and harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. If our third-party providers increase their prices and we do not have access to alternative providers, we could be required to raise the price of our phone/service bundles to customers to cover all or part of the increased costs. Our inability to obtain phones and services at the prices we desire could hurt our sales and lower our margins. Generally, we do not own or control the vast majority of the equipment, tools and molds used in the manufacturing process. As a result, difficulties encountered by our third-party manufacturers that result in product defects, production delays, cost overruns or the inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis could harm our operations. Our operations would be adversely affected if we were to lose our relationships with our primary suppliers, if our suppliers’ operations were interrupted or terminated, or if overseas or air transportation services were disrupted, even for a relatively short period of time. We do not expect to maintain a product inventory that is sufficient to provide protection for any significant period against an interruption of the supply of our hardware. We currently rely on a limited number of manufacturers for the production of our phone hardware and a limited number of service providers for the provision of the communications services accessible through our phones and the loss of any of their services could be disruptive to our operations. We currently rely substantially on one outside manufacturer to produce our phone hardware and on SunRocket and IDT for the provision of the communications services accessible through our phones. The loss of service of any of our suppliers would require us to find alternative suppliers. While we believe such alternative suppliers are readily available, securing relationships with alternative suppliers and integrating them into our business process would take time and could require us to make significant expenditures. Since our hardware is sourced from parties outside of the United States, we face certain risks inherent in conducting business in foreign countries. We produce our phones under manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers, including those located in China. Our reliance on our third-party manufacturers to provide personnel and facilities in their country of operations and the potential imposition of quota limitations on imported goods from certain Asian countries expose us to certain economic and political risks, including transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, the business and financial condition of our third party manufacturer, the possibility of expropriation, supply disruption, currency controls, and currency exchange fluctuations, changes in tax laws, tariffs, and freight rates, as well as strikes, work slow downs, or lockouts at ports where our phones arrive in the United States. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or foreign countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to purchase our phones from foreign suppliers at a price that will enable us to sell those phones profitably. We may not be successful if the Internet is not adopted by a significant number of users as a means of communications. If the market for IP-based communications and the related services that we will make available does not grow at the rate we anticipate or at all, we will not be able to realize our anticipated revenues with respect to our broadband phones. To be successful, IP-based communications require validation as an effective means of communication and as a viable alternative to traditional phone service. Demand and market acceptance for newly introduced services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. The Internet may not prove to be a viable alternative to traditional phone service for reasons including: · inconsistent quality or speed of service; · traffic congestion on the Internet; 13 · potentially inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure; · lack of acceptable security technologies; · lack of timely development and commercialization of performance improvements; and · unavailability of cost-effective, high-speed access to the Internet. A significant number of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources and longer operating histories than we do, and we may not be able to compete with them effectively, even if our phones and services are technically superior. We engage in an intensely competitive business that has been characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and foreign competition. We compete with major domestic and international companies. Many of our competitors have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess. Emerging companies also may increase their participation in the phone hardware or communications service markets. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: · the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing, and diversity of our phones and the communications services accessed through them; · our ability to address the evolving demands of our customers; · our success in designing and manufacturing new phones, including those implementing new technologies and services; · the availability of adequate sources of raw materials, finished components, and other supplies at acceptable prices; · our suppliers’ efficiency of production; · new product introductions by our competitors; · the number, nature, and success of our competitors in a given market; and · general market and economic conditions. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate any competitive pricing advantage we may have previously established. International and domestic telecommunications rates have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we expect to operate, and we anticipate that rates will continue to be reduced in all of the markets in which we expect to do business. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate any competitive pricing advantage we may have previously been able to establish for the communications services available to our hardware users. Purchasers who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between our rates and rates otherwise available to them for the same service may not purchase our phones if such pricing differentials diminish or disappear. In addition, rate decreases would reduce our gross profit margin from the services we make available to purchasers of our phones and services. Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to VoIP telephony could harm our business. Historically, voice communications services have been provided by regulated telecommunications common carriers. For some of our phones, we will offer voice communications to the public for international and domestic calls using VoIP telephony. Based on specific regulatory classifications and recent regulatory decisions, we believe such services qualify for certain exemptions from telecommunications common carrier regulation in many of our markets. However, the growth of VoIP telephony has led to close examination of its regulatory treatment in many 14 jurisdictions, making the legal status of such services uncertain and subject to change as a result of future regulatory action, judicial decisions or legislation in the jurisdictions in which we expect to operate. Established regulated telecommunications carriers have sought and may continue to seek regulatory actions to restrict the ability of companies such as our communications service providers to provide services or to increase the cost of providing such services. In addition, such services may be subject to regulation if regulators distinguish between phone-to-phone telephony service using VoIP and other technologies over privately-managed networks, such as our services, and integrated PC-to-PC and PC-originated voice services over the Internet. Some regulators may decide to treat the former as regulated common carrier services and the latter as unregulated enhanced or information services. Application of new regulatory restrictions or requirements to our service providers could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent or restrict us from delivering our services through our current arrangements. Such regulations could limit our service phone/service bundles, raise our costs and restrict our pricing flexibility, and potentially limit our ability to compete effectively. If we don’t enhance our phone/service bundles and develop new phones and services to keep pace with rapid technological and consumer demand changes in the communications industry, we may lose any market share we were previously able to establish. Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology and consumer demand. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes or the changes of consumer demand on our business. In addition, widely accepted standards have not yet developed for the technologies we use, such as VoIP. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge over time in the markets in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we make available, or these new services may render the services and technologies that we make available obsolete or less attractive to consumers. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving and expanding the scope of services we make available and by developing new services and technologies to meet consumer needs. The loss of any of the members of our management or certain other key personnel could harm our business. Our development and operations to date have been, and our proposed operations will be, substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management and technical personnel. Although we have acquired $3,000,000 of key-person life insurance on the life of Bruce Hahn, our Chief Executive Officer, the loss of his services or the services of other existing key personnel or the failure to recruit and retain necessary additional personnel would adversely affect our business prospects. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain necessary additional personnel. Our internal growth and the expansion of our product lines will require additional expertise in such areas as product design, operational management, and sales and marketing. Such growth and expansion activities will increase further the demand on our resources and require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Our failure to attract and retain personnel possessing the requisite expertise or to develop such expertise internally could adversely affect the prospects for our success. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our phones infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development efforts, from time to time we may receive notice that a third party believes that our phones may be infringing certain trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of that third party. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers or other third parties associated with our phones in the event they are alleged to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights in connection with our phones. Responding to those claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Thus, even if our phones do not infringe, we may elect to take a license or settle to avoid incurring such costs. In the event our phones are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may elect or be required to redesign our phones so that they do not incorporate any intellectual property to which the third party has or claims rights. As a result, some of our phone/service bundles could be delayed, or we could be required to cease distributing some of our phones. Alternatively, we could seek a license for the third party’s intellectual property, but it is possible that we would not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms, or at all. Any delays that we might then suffer or additional expenses that we might then incur could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. 15 Risks Related our Common Stock The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock and redeemable warrants are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of analyst coverage for our company, and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be severely limited. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional investors: · must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these requirements, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our stock will be significantly limited. Accordingly, the market price of our stock may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell your shares. Future sales of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price to decrease and impair our capital raising abilities. As of June 30, 2006, 5,328,167 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding redeemable warrants at an exercise price of $5.05 per share, 240,000 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $4.79 per share, 55,000 shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of warrants issued to non-employees at a weighted average exercise price of $4.20 per share, and 670,000 shares of our common stock were issuable upon full exercise of the purchase option issued to the representative of our initial public offering (including exercise of the redeemable warrants underlying the purchase option) at an exercise price of $6.31 per share and $0.0625 per redeemable warrant. As of June 30, 2006, 325,000 shares of performance accelerated restricted stock (“PARS”)were also outstanding. An aggregate of 2,225,907 shares of common stock and 1,475,667 redeemable warrants have been registered for resale. Except for 79,926 shares and 58,333 redeemable warrants beneficially owned by Lawrence Burstein, our Chairman, which shares and warrants are subject to the lock-up agreement described in the following sentence, such shares and warrants are currently 16 saleable into the market. Our officers, directors and principal securityholders and certain of their family members have entered into lock-up agreements with the representative by which they have agreed not to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of our common stock (other than an aggregate of 200,000 shares as a group) until January 31, 2007. After this lock-up period, however, these securityholders may sell their shares. We cannot predict whether substantial amounts of our common stock and/or warrants will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, any future divestiture of our shares by these or other of our officers, directors or principal securityholders. In addition, we have more than 26,879,093 million shares of our common stock authorized and not yet issued or reserved against. In general, we may issue all of these shares, as well as 5,000 shares of preferred stock which may have rights and preferences superior to that of our common stock, without any action or approval by our securityholders. If a large number of shares of our common stock are sold in the open market, or if the market perceives that such sales will occur as a result of any of the foregoing, the trading price of our common stock could decrease. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock. Failure to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying the redeemable warrants may deprive the redeemable warrants of any value and the market for the redeemable warrants may be limited. No redeemable warrants will be exercisable unless at the time of exercise a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the redeemable warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the redeemable warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the redeemable warrants until the expiration of the redeemable warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. The redeemable warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the redeemable warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the redeemable warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the redeemable warrants reside. However, in no event (whether in the case of a registration statement not being effective or otherwise) are we required to net cash settle a redeemable warrant exercise. Our officers, directors and affiliated entities own a large percentage of our company, and they could make business decisions with which you disagree that will affect the value of your investment. Our executive officers and directors, in total, beneficially own approximately 19.1% of our outstanding common stock. These securityholders will be able to influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our securityholders, including the election of directors. Thus, actions might be taken even if other securityholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, which could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our corporate documents and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware General Corporation Law, may hinder a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us, even though such proposals may be beneficial to you. These provisions include: · a classified board of directors that cannot be replaced without cause by a majority vote of our securityholders; · our board of director’s authorization to issue shares of preferred stock, on terms as the board of directors may determine, including terms superior to those provided by our common stock, without securityholder approval; and · provisions of Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict many business combinations. 17 We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a 15% or greater securityholder for a period of three years from the date it acquired that status unless appropriate board or securityholder approvals are obtained. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 