ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Overview Recent Expansion Projects Trends and Uncertainties Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Financial Analysis of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Forward-Looking Statements ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. Note 1: Corporate Structure Note 2: Accounting Policies Note 3: Commitments and Contingencies Note 4: Financing Note 5: Employee Benefits Note 6: Income Tax Note 7: Financial Instruments Note 8: Major Customers and Transactions with Affiliates Note 9: Recent Accounting Pronouncements Note 10: Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information Note 11: Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION. PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. PART I Item 1. Business. General Development of Our Business We are a Delaware limited partnership formed in 2005 to own and operate the business conducted by Boardwalk Pipelines, LP and its subsidiaries, Texas Gas Transmission, LLC and Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP. The ownership of each of these entities is described in the chart presented under “Organizational Chart.” Throughout this report, we use the terms set forth below. • “BGL” refers to Boardwalk GP, LLC, the general partner of Boardwalk GP; • “Boardwalk GP” refers to Boardwalk GP, LP, the general partner of Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP; • “Boardwalk Pipelines” refers to Boardwalk Pipelines, LP (formerly Boardwalk Pipelines, LLC); • “BPHC” refers to Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp; • “Gulf South” refers to Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP; • “Loews” refers to Loews Corporation; • “our general partner” refers collectively to Boardwalk GP and BGL; • “Texas Gas” refers to Texas Gas Transmission, LLC; and • the “Partnership,” “we,” “us,” “our” and like terms refer to Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, collectively with our subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Completion of Our Initial Public Offering of Common Units and Related Transactions On November 15, 2005, we sold 15 million common units in an underwritten initial public offering (IPO), the net proceeds of which were approximately $271.4 million. We used the net proceeds from our IPO to repay $250.0 million of indebtedness to Loews, and provide $21.4 million of additional working capital to our subsidiaries. The common units sold in our IPO represent approximately 14.5% of the partners’ capital which includes common units, subordinated units and a 2% general partner interest. All of our common and subordinated units, other than the common units sold in our IPO, are held by BPHC. Boardwalk GP holds our 2% general partner interest and all of our incentive distribution rights. In connection with the consummation of our IPO, we and our affiliates effected a number of additional transactions, which are described in Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions-Transactions Consummated in Connection with the Completion of our IPO.” In addition, in connection with the closing of our IPO, Boardwalk Pipelines entered into a five-year $200 million revolving credit facility. Boardwalk Pipeline Partners has guaranteed the obligations of Boardwalk Pipelines under that credit facility. For further discussion of our credit facility, please read Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Organizational Chart The following diagram depicts our organizational structure after giving effect to our IPO and the related transactions discussed above. Our Business We are engaged in the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas. We transport and store natural gas for a broad mix of customers, including local distribution companies (LDCs), municipalities, interstate and intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electric power generation plants, and various marketers and producers. Our transportation and storage rates are established by, and subject to review and revision by, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). These rates are designed to allow us the opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable return on equity. Our storage rates for Gulf South are market-based pursuant to authority granted by FERC. We provide a significant portion of our pipeline transportation and storage services under firm contracts under which our customers pay monthly capacity reservation charges (which are charges owed regardless of actual pipeline or storage capacity utilization) as well as other charges based on actual utilization. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 63% of our revenues were derived from capacity reservation charges under firm contracts, approximately 19% of our revenues were derived from other charges based on actual utilization under firm contracts, and approximately 18% of our revenues were derived from interruptible transportation and storage services and other services. Our Pipeline and Storage Systems We own and operate two interstate natural gas pipeline systems, with approximately 13,470 miles of pipeline, directly serving customers in eleven states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern United States through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. In 2005, our pipeline systems transported approximately 1,350 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of gas. Average daily throughput on our pipeline systems during 2005 was approximately 3.7 Bcf. Our natural gas storage facilities are comprised of eleven underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate certificated working gas capacity of approximately 143 Bcf. We conduct all of our natural gas transportation and storage operations through our two subsidiaries, Texas Gas and Gulf South, operating as one segment. The following map depicts our natural gas pipeline and storage systems: Our Texas Gas System Texas Gas’ pipeline system originates in the Louisiana Gulf Coast area and in East Texas and runs north and east through Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, and into Ohio, with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. This system is composed of: • approximately 5,900 miles of pipelines, having a peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 2.8 Bcf/day; • 31 compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 531,000 horsepower; and • nine natural gas storage fields located in Indiana and Kentucky, having aggregate storage capacity of approximately 178 Bcf of gas, of which approximately 63 Bcf is certificated as working gas. Texas Gas’ direct market area encompasses eight states in the southern and Midwestern United States and includes the Memphis, Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio; and Evansville and Indianapolis, Indiana metropolitan areas. Texas Gas also has indirect market access to the Northeast through interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Texas Gas owns a majority of the gas in its storage fields which it uses to meet the operational balancing needs on its system, to meet the requirements of its firm and interruptible storage customers and the requirements of its no-notice transportation service, which allows customers to temporarily draw from storage gas during the winter season to be repaid in-kind during the following summer season. Texas Gas’ storage facilities also offer summer no-notice transportation service, designed primarily to meet the needs of summer-season electrical power generation facilities. A large portion of the gas delivered by Texas Gas’ system is used for space heating, resulting in substantially higher daily requirements during winter months. Our Gulf South System The Gulf South pipeline system is located entirely in the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. This system is composed of: • approximately 7,570 miles of pipeline, having a peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 3.5 Bcf/day; • 29 compressor stations having an aggregate of approximately 223,000 horsepower; and • two natural gas storage fields located in Louisiana and Mississippi, having aggregate storage capacity of approximately 129 Bcf of gas, of which approximately 80 Bcf is certificated as working gas. The markets directly served by the Gulf South system are generally located in eastern Texas, Louisiana, southern Mississippi, southern Alabama, and the Florida panhandle. These markets include the Baton Rouge—New Orleans industrial corridor; Lake Charles, Louisiana; Mobile, Alabama; and Pensacola, Florida. Gulf South also has indirect access to off-system markets through over 100 interconnections with other interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage facilities. These pipeline interconnections provide access to major cities throughout the northeastern and southeastern United States. Gulf South’s Bistineau, Louisiana gas storage facility has approximately 77 Bcf of working gas storage capacity, with a maximum injection rate of 480 million cubic feet (MMcf)/day and a maximum withdrawal rate of 870 MMcf/day. Gulf South currently sells firm and interruptible storage services at Bistineau under FERC approved market-based rates. Gulf South’s Jackson, Mississippi gas storage facility has approximately 2.7 Bcf of working gas storage capacity, with a maximum injection rate of 100 MMcf/day and a maximum withdrawal rate of 250 MMcf/day. The Jackson gas storage facility is used for operational purposes and its capacity is not offered for sale to the market. Gulf South has received FERC approval for approximately 2.4 Bcf expansion of the working gas storage capacity at its Jackson storage facility, effective through October 2006. Gulf South will seek permanent FERC approval of this expansion. Gulf South has also received FERC approval to drill two new horizontal storage wells at its Bistineau storage facility and is implementing a company-wide multi-year efficiency improvement plan, which may include well work-overs and is expected to increase efficiency and late-season deliverability. Recent Expansion Projects East Texas and Mississippi Pipeline Expansion. In February and March of 2006, Gulf South entered into long-term agreements with customers providing firm commitments for capacity on its 1.5 Bcf per day pipeline expansion projects in East Texas and Mississippi. We expect the total cost for the 1.5 Bcf expansion to be approximately $800 million, and we expect the new capacity to be in-service during the second half of 2007. The East Texas pipeline expansion will extend from Carthage in East Texas to the Perryville area in Richland Parish, Louisiana. Natural gas originating primarily from the prolific Barnett Shale and Bossier Sands producing regions of East Texas will be transported to interstate pipelines serving markets in the Midwest and Northeast, including Texas Gas, MRT, Tennessee, ANR, Columbia Gulf and Southern Natural. The Mississippi pipeline expansion will continue eastward from the Perryville area to the Jackson, Mississippi area and will provide additional supplies to customers in the Northeast and Southeast through interconnects with interstate pipelines serving those markets, including Texas Eastern, Transco, Southern Natural and Florida Gas, and to customers in the Baton Rouge - New Orleans industrial complex. These projects are subject to FERC approvals. Gulf South will submit separate applications to FERC for authority to construct the East Texas and Mississippi expansion projects. In February 2006, FERC granted Gulf South's request to initiate the pre-filing process for the East Texas expansion. Western Kentucky Storage Expansion. In November 2005, Texas Gas completed the expansion of its western Kentucky storage complex by approximately 8 Bcf of working gas, which allows for the additional withdrawal of approximately 82 MMcf/day, and contracted with customers for that new capacity at maximum rates for five years. In addition, Texas Gas has accepted commitments from customers for incremental no-notice service (NNS) and firm storage service that will allow it to further expand the working gas in this storage complex by approximately 9 Bcf, subject to FERC approval. We expect this second storage expansion to go into service in late 2007. East Texas Lease Arrangement. In December 2005, Texas Gas initiated service under a lease arrangement which allowed us to tie in 100 MMcf/day of supply from the growing Barnett Shale production area in East Texas to the Texas Gas system at Sharon, Louisiana, using existing pipeline infrastructure. Magnolia Storage Facility. Gulf South has leased a gas storage facility, which we refer to as the Magnolia facility, near Napoleonville, Louisiana, at which it has installed two compressor stations, with a combined horsepower of 9,470, and other storage infrastructure and is currently developing a high-deliverability storage cavern that, when operational, may add up to approximately 5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. Magnolia’s storage capacity is expected to be in service and available for sale at market-based rates in late 2008 or early 2009, subject to the operational requirements of the lessor. Sources of Natural Gas Supply The principal sources of supply for our pipeline systems are regional supply hubs and market centers in the Gulf Coast region, including Mobile Bay, Alabama; offshore Louisiana; Perryville, Louisiana; the Henry Hub in Louisiana; and Agua Dulce and Carthage, Texas. The Henry Hub serves as the designated delivery point for natural gas futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Carthage, Texas provides access to natural gas supplies from the Bossier Sands and Barnett Shale gas producing regions in East Texas. In addition, the Gulf South’s system provides access to wellhead supplies in East Texas, North and South Louisiana, and Mississippi. We also have access to imported liquefied natural gas (LNG) through the Lake Charles, Louisiana LNG terminal; to mid-continent gas production through several interconnects and to Canadian natural gas through a pipeline interconnect at Whitesville, Kentucky. Nature of Contracts We contract with our customers to provide transportation services and storage services on a firm and interruptible basis. We also provide combined firm transportation and firm storage services, which we refer to as NNS service. In addition, we provide interruptible parking and lending services (PAL). Transportation Services. We offer transportation service on both a firm and interruptible basis. Our customers choose a combination thereof, depending upon the importance of factors such as availability, price of service, and the volume and timing of the customer’s requirements. Firm transportation customers reserve a specific amount of pipeline capacity at certain receipt and delivery points on our system. Firm customers generally pay fees based on the quantity of capacity reserved regardless of use, plus a commodity and fuel charge paid on the volume of gas actually transported. As such, firm transportation revenues typically remain relatively constant over the term of the contract. Firm transportation contracts generally range in term from three months to ten years, although short-term firm transportation services can be offered with daily terms. In providing interruptible transportation service, we agree to transport gas for a customer when capacity is available. Interruptible transportation service customers pay a commodity charge only for the volume of gas actually transported, plus a fuel charge. Generally, interruptible transportation agreements have terms of thirty days or less. The rates charged for transportation services are subject to a maximum tariff rate authorized by FERC, which establishes rates designed to provide an opportunity for us to recover costs of service, including a reasonable return on equity. Currently, most of our transportation services are provided at less than the current maximum applicable rates. Storage Services. We offer customers storage services on both a firm and interruptible basis. Firm storage customers reserve a specific amount of storage capacity, including injection and withdrawal rights, while interruptible customers receive storage capacity and injection and withdrawal rights when it is available. Similar to firm transportation customers, firm storage customers generally pay fees based on the quantity of capacity reserved plus an injection and withdrawal fee. Firm storage contracts typically range in term from one to five years. Interruptible storage customers pay for the volume of gas actually stored. Generally, interruptible storage agreements range from one to twelve months. Gulf South is authorized to charge market-based rates for their firm and interruptible storage services. Accordingly, unlike most other FERC-regulated pipelines, including Texas Gas, Gulf South’s stand-alone storage services are not subject to cost-based rate caps. NNS. NNS consists of a combination of firm transportation and storage services that allow customers to pull gas from storage with little or no notice and requires a reservation of a specified amount of storage and transportation capacity. Customers pay a reservation charge based upon the capacity reserved plus a commodity and fuel charge paid on the volume of gas actually transported. NNS provides customers with additional flexibility over traditional firm transportation and storage services. The Texas Gas system loans stored gas to its no-notice customers, who are obligated to repay the gas used in-kind. PAL Services. PAL is an interruptible service offered to customers providing them the ability to park (inject) or lend (withdraw) gas into or out of our pipelines at a specific location for a specific period of time. Customers and Markets Served We transport natural gas for a broad mix of customers, including LDCs, municipalities, intrastate and interstate pipelines, direct industrial users, electric power generators, marketers and producers located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the United States. Unlike most interstate pipelines, Gulf South does not transport natural gas solely from one supply area located at one end of its system to a consuming area located at the other end of its system. Instead, Gulf South’s customers are located throughout the system or, through numerous interconnections, on unaffiliated pipeline systems. In contrast, the Texas Gas system primarily moves gas in a northeasterly direction to the system’s north and northeast endpoints. Texas Gas customers located at these endpoints generally transport their gas to the major east coast metropolitan areas through interconnections with unaffiliated pipeline systems. Based upon revenues, our customer mix as of December 31, 2005, is represented in the following percentages: LDCs (39%), pipeline interconnects (33%), storage (8%), industrial end-users (6%), power plants (5%) and other/miscellaneous (9%). We contract both directly with customers connected to our system and with marketers, producers and other third parties who provide transportation and storage services to our customers. LDCs. Most of our LDC customers use firm transportation services, including NNS. These customers operate under contracts having a weighted-average contract term of approximately three years as of December 31, 2005. We serve approximately 185 LDCs located across our pipeline systems. The demand of these customers peaks during the winter heating season. Pipeline Interconnects (off system). Our pipeline systems serve as feeder pipelines for long-haul interstate pipelines serving markets throughout the northeastern and southeastern United States. We have approximately 85 interconnects with third-party interstate pipelines. Storage. We provide storage services to a broad mix of customers including LDCs, marketers and producers. Typically, LDCs use storage under their NNS contracts to manage winter gas supplies, marketers use storage to facilitate trading opportunities, and producers use storage to ensure their ability to produce on a consistent basis. Industrial End Users. We are directly connected to industrial facilities in the Baton Rouge—New Orleans industrial corridor; Lake Charles, Louisiana; Mobile, Alabama; and Pensacola, Florida. We can also access the Houston Ship Channel through third-party pipelines. We can directly serve more than 150 industrial facilities. Most industrial facilities use a combination of firm and interruptible transportation services. Power Plants. We serve a key role in providing gas supply to major electrical power generators in nine states. We are directly connected to several large natural gas-fired power generation facilities, some of which are also directly connected to other pipelines. The demand of the power generating customers peaks during the summer cooling season which is counter to the winter season peak demands of the LDCs. Most of our power generating customers use a combination of firm and interruptible transportation services. Major Customers During 2005, Atmos Energy accounted for approximately 11.0% of our total operating revenues. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of this customer, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition We compete with numerous intrastate and interstate pipelines throughout our service territory to provide transportation and storage services for our customers. Competition is particularly strong in the states of Louisiana, Texas and Indiana, with the new Heartland Gas Pipeline currently being constructed in Indiana posing a competitive threat. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to supply, and flexibility and reliability of service. In addition, FERC’s continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of our traditional customers. As a result, segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which, increasingly, competes with our pipeline services, particularly on our Texas Gas system. Our business is, in part, dependent on the volumes of natural gas consumed in the United States. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal, and fuel oils. Our competitors attempt to attract new supply to their pipelines including those that are currently connected to markets served by us. As a result, we compete with these entities to maintain current business levels and to serve new demand and markets. FERC has granted us the authority to charge market-based rates for our Gulf South firm and interruptible storage services. Gulf South charges market-based rates for the storage services provided from its Bistineau storage facility and when operational will charge market-based rates for storage services provided at its Magnolia storage field. Seasonality Our revenues are seasonal in nature and are affected by weather and natural gas price volatility. Weather impacts natural gas demand for power generation and heating purposes, which in turn influences the value of transportation and storage across our pipeline systems. Colder than normal winters or warmer than normal summers typically result in increased pipeline revenues. Natural gas prices are also volatile, which in turn influences drilling and production which can affect the value of our storage and PAL services. Peak demand for natural gas occurs during the winter months, caused by the heating load. During 2005, approximately 58% of our total operating revenues were realized in the first and fourth calendar quarters. Government Regulation FERC regulates pipelines under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, the extension, enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities, and the financial accounting of certain regulated pipeline companies. We are also regulated by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by Title I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, which regulates safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipelines. Where required, Texas Gas and Gulf South hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by FERC covering their facilities, activities, and services. FERC has power to prescribe accounting treatment for items for regulatory purposes. The books and records of Texas Gas and Gulf South may be periodically audited by FERC. The maximum rates that may be charged by Texas Gas and Gulf South for gas transportation and storage services are established through the FERC rate-making process. Key determinants in the rate-making process are costs of providing service, allowed rate of return, and volume throughput assumptions. The allowed rate of return must be approved by FERC in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact profitability. Texas Gas filed a new rate case with FERC in 2005, and implemented new rates effective November 1, 2005, subject to refund. As of December 31, 2005, Texas Gas had recorded a refund liability of approximately $5.0 million related to the 2005 rate case. Gulf South currently has no obligation to file a rate case. Our operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. These laws include, for example: (a) the Clean Air Act and analogous state laws which impose obligations related to air emissions; (b) the Water Pollution Control Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws which regulate discharge of wastewaters from our facilities into state and federal waters; (c) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly referred to as CERCLA, or the Superfund law, and analogous state laws which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal; and (d) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and analogous state laws which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. For further discussion regarding our environmental risk factors, please read Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Employee Relations We have approximately 1,100 employees, approximately 100 of which are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which will expire on April 30, 2007. A satisfactory relationship continues to exist between management and labor. We maintain various defined contribution plans covering substantially all our employees and various other plans, which provide regular active employees with group life, hospital, and medical benefits, as well as disability benefits, and savings benefits. We also have a non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan which covers substantially all the Texas Gas employees. For further discussion of our Employee Benefits, please read Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Available Information Our internet website is located at www.boardwalkpipelines.com. We make available free of charge, through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These documents are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Additionally, copies of these documents, excluding exhibits, may be requested at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, 3800 Frederica Street, Owensboro, Kentucky, 42301. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. All of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us should be carefully considered and evaluated. Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to FERC rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. Action by FERC on currently pending matters as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our ability to establish rates, or to charge rates that would cover future increases in our costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. On April 29, 2005, Texas Gas filed a rate case. The rate case reflected a requested increase in annual cost of service, primarily attributable to increases in the utility rate base, operating expenses, and rate of return, and related taxes. The proposed rates, which were placed in effect on November 1, 2005, are subject to refund in the event lower maximum rates are established as a result of a settlement or hearing. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to recover all of our actual costs through existing or future rates. An adverse determination in Texas Gas’ pending rate case, or in any future rate proceeding of Texas Gas or Gulf South could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In a decision last year involving an oil pipeline limited partnership, BP West Coast Products, LLC v. FERC, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated FERC’s Lakehead policy. In its Lakehead decision, FERC allowed an oil pipeline limited partnership to include in its cost of service an income tax allowance to the extent that its unitholders were corporations subject to income tax. In May 2005, FERC issued a statement of general policy, as well as an order on remand of BP West Coast. According to the policy statement, pipelines, including those organized as partnerships, can include in computing their cost of service a tax allowance to reflect actual or potential tax liability on their public utility income attributable to all entities or individuals owning public utility assets, if the pipeline establishes that the entities or individuals have an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the new policy affords pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities an opportunity to recover a tax allowance, FERC has not indicated what is required to establish such actual or potential income tax liability for all owners. The new tax allowance policy as applied to the BP West Coast decision is subject to rehearing and possible further action by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or another court on appeal. Further, application of FERC’s policy statement in individual cases may be subject to further FERC action or review in the appropriate Court of Appeals. Therefore, the ultimate outcome of these proceedings is not certain and could result in changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service. If FERC were to disallow a substantial portion of Texas Gas or Gulf South’s income tax allowance, it is likely that the level of maximum allowed rates could decrease from current levels. If FERC policy is reversed or implemented in a manner that is disadvantageous to us, our general partner’s right to repurchase our outstanding units, as provided in our partnership agreement, may be triggered. Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by FERC in addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates we can charge for our services. FERC’s regulatory authority also extends to: • operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services we may offer to our customers; • construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • accounts and records; and • relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas business. FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, the costs we incur in our operations, the construction of new facilities or our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. For example, the development of uniform interstate gas quality standards by FERC could create two distinct markets for natural gas—an interstate market subject to uniform minimum quality standards and an intrastate market with no uniform minimum quality standards. Such a bifurcation of markets could make it difficult for our pipelines to compete in both markets or to attract certain gas supplies away from the intrastate market. Another example is the time FERC takes to approve the construction of new facilities which could give our non-regulated competitors time to offer alternative projects or raise the costs of our projects to the point where they are no longer economical. FERC has authority to review pipeline contracts. If FERC determines that a term of any such contract deviates in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff, FERC typically will order the pipeline to remove the term from the contract and execute and refile a new contract with FERC, or alternatively, amend its tariff to include the deviating term, thereby offering it to all shippers. If FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts and finds material deviations that appear to be unduly discriminatory, FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in serious penalties and/or onerous ongoing compliance obligations. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which we will operate our natural gas transportation and storage businesses, or the effect such regulation could have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Catastrophic losses are unpredictable. Catastrophic losses may be an inevitable part of our business. Various events can cause catastrophic losses, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather and fires, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. For example, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita that struck the Gulf Coast in 2005 are unprecedented in modern times. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. For further discussion of the impact on us of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, please read Note 3 Commitments and Contingencies—Impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the environment which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and loss of revenues. Any changes in such regulations or their application could negatively affect our results of operations. The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in natural gas transportation and storage. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. These laws include, for example: (a) the Clean Air Act and analogous state laws which impose obligations related to air emissions; (b) the Water Pollution Control Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws which regulate discharge of wastewaters from our facilities into state and federal waters; (c) CERCLA or the Superfund law, and analogous state laws which regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal; and (d) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and analogous state laws which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. Such regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that our facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted in the future and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to our operations or facilities. For example, the federal government and several states have recently proposed increased environmental regulation of many industrial activities, including increased regulation of air quality, water quality and solid waste management. In addition, government action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, or any other government action which may have the effect of requiring or encouraging reduced consumption or production of natural gas, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with current or future environmental regulations could require significant expenditures and the failure to comply with current or future regulations might result in the imposition of fines and penalties. The steps we may be required to take to bring certain of our facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive and we may be required to shut down or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. Further, current rate structures, customer contracts and prevailing market conditions might not allow us to recover the additional costs incurred to comply with new environmental requirements and we might not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for certain projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, we may be required to shut down certain facilities or become subject to additional costs. The costs of complying with environmental regulation in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our natural gas transportation and storage operations, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We currently possess property, business interruption and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. Moreover, after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Pipeline safety integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. The United States DOT Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) has issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as high consequence areas (HCAs), where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. The final rule requires operators to (1) perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity, (2) identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact an HCA, (3) improve data collection, integration and analysis, (4) repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary and (5) implement preventive and mitigating actions. In compliance with the rule, we have initiated pipeline integrity testing programs that are intended to assess pipeline integrity. At this time, we cannot predict all of the effects this rule will have on us. However, the rule or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment, and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. Any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. Should we fail to comply with OPS rules, and related regulations and orders, we could be subject to penalties and fines. We are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety, and failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our financial condition. The workplaces associated with our pipelines are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local residents. The failure to comply with OSHA requirements or general industry standards, keep adequate records or monitor occupational exposure to regulated substances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increased competition could have a significant financial impact on us. We compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. Natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. FERC’s policies promoting competition in gas markets are having the effect of increasing the gas transportation options for our traditional customer base. As a result, Texas Gas has begun to experience some “turnback” of firm capacity as existing transportation service agreements expire and are not renewed. If we are unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, Texas Gas may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by our pipeline systems or, in cases where we do not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force us to lower our transportation or storage rates. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our pipeline systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. We also compete against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over us and other interstate pipelines because of the absence of FERC regulation. In view of the greater rate, construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, we may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because of the natural decline in gas production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas, which is dependent on factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our business and operating results. Since 2003, gas production from the Gulf Coast region, which supplies the majority of our throughput, has declined on average approximately 3.2% per year according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). We cannot give any assurance regarding the gas production industry’s ability to find new sources of domestic supply. Production from existing wells and gas supply basins connected to our pipelines will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with the gathering or transportation of gas from these wells and basins will also decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than we anticipate, or the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than we anticipate. Accordingly, to maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipelines, we must continually obtain access to new supplies of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new sources of natural gas to our pipelines include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity near our pipelines, (2) our ability to compete for these supplies, (3) the successful completion of new LNG facilities near our pipelines, and (4) our gas quality requirements. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is the price of oil and natural gas. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our pipelines, which would lead to reduced throughput levels on our pipelines. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budget limitations, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits, the availability and cost of drilling rigs and other drilling equipment, and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves were discovered in areas served by our pipelines, producers may choose not to develop those reserves or may connect them to different pipelines. Imported LNG is expected to be a significant component of future natural gas supply to the United States. Much of this increase in LNG supplies is expected to be imported through new LNG facilities to be developed over the next decade. We cannot predict which, if any, of these projects will be constructed. We anticipate benefiting from some of these new projects and the additional gas supply they will bring to the Gulf Coast region. If a significant number of these new projects fail to be developed with their announced capacity, or there are significant delays in such development, or if they are built in locations where they are not connected to our systems or they do not influence sources of supply on our systems, we may not realize expected increases in future natural gas supply available for transportation through our systems. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, or if the expected increase in natural gas supply through imported LNG is not realized, throughput on our pipelines would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Offtake capacity at our Lebanon, Ohio terminus is limited. The northeastern terminus of our Texas Gas pipeline system is in Lebanon, Ohio, where it connects with other interstate natural gas pipelines delivering to East Coast and Midwest metropolitan areas and other indirect markets. Pipeline capacity into Lebanon is approximately 48% greater than pipeline capacity leaving that point, creating a bottleneck for supply into areas of high demand. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 54% of our long-term contracts with firm deliveries to Lebanon expire by the end of 2007. While demand for natural gas from our Lebanon, Ohio terminus and other interconnects in that region has remained strong in the past, there can be no assurance regarding continued demand for gas from the Gulf Coast region, including East Texas, in the face of other sources of natural gas for our various indirect markets, including pipelines from Canada and new LNG facilities proposed to be constructed along the East Coast. Successful development of LNG import terminals in the eastern or northeastern United States could reduce the demand for our services. Development of new, or expansion of existing, LNG facilities on the East Coast could reduce the need for customers in the northeastern United States to transport natural gas from the Gulf Coast and other supply basins connected to our pipelines. This could reduce the amount of gas transported by our pipelines for delivery off-system to other interstate pipelines serving the northeast. If we are not able to replace these volumes with volumes to other markets or other regions, throughput on our pipelines would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 28% of the firm contract load on our pipeline systems was due to expire on or before December 31, 2006. Upon expiration, we may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. A key determinant of the value that customers can realize from firm transportation on a pipeline is the basis differential or market price spread between two points on the pipeline. The difference in natural gas prices between the points along the pipeline where gas enters and gas is delivered represents the gross margin that a customer can expect to achieve from holding transportation capacity at any point in time. This margin and its variability become important factors in determining the rate customers are willing to pay when they renegotiate their transportation contracts. The basis differential between markets can be affected by, among other things, the availability of supply, available capacity, storage inventories, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to our markets; • the growth in demand for natural gas in our markets; • whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; • the reduction of basis differentials across our pipeline systems; • whether our business strategy continues to be successful; and • the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, ProLiance Energy, LLC and Atmos Energy accounted for approximately 20% of our total operating revenues. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts and those with other key customers on favorable terms. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, unless we are able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. We are exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by our customers. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by us to them, generally under PAL and NNS services. Average natural gas prices have increased dramatically in recent years. This rise in gas prices has materially increased credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. The amount of gas loaned out by us over the past 24 months at any one time to our customers has ranged from a high of approximately 38 Bcf at April 30, 2005 to a low of approximately 4 Bcf at December 31, 2005. Assuming an average market price during December 2005 of $12.34 per million British thermal units (MMBtu), the market value of gas loaned out at December 31, 2005, would have been approximately $49.4 million. As of February 28, 2006, the amount of gas loaned out was approximately 18 Bcf and, assuming an average market price during February 2006 of $7.30 per MMBtu, the market value of that gas would be approximately $131.4 million. If any significant customer of ours should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe us, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines. For example, our Gulf South pipeline can deliver approximately 500 MMcf/day to a major pipeline connection with Texas Eastern at Kosciusko, Mississippi. If this or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect which caused a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Significant changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, reducing system throughput and adversely affecting our revenues and available cash. Higher natural gas prices could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas, and therefore, in the throughput on our pipelines. In addition, reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by our PAL and interruptible storage services. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply, changes in demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions and seasonal trends; • levels of domestic production and consumer demand; • the availability of LNG; • the availability of adequate transportation capacity; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of energy conservation measures; • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and • the anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. Expansion projects and acquisitions involve risks that may adversely affect our business. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow our business through acquisitions, expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets. Any acquisition, expansion or new construction involves potential risks, including: • performance of our business following the acquisition, expansion or construction of assets that does not meet expectations; • a significant increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements, which could, among other things, have an adverse impact on our credit ratings; • the inability to timely and effectively integrate into our operations the operations of newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets; • the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; and • regulatory risks created by the nature or location of acquired businesses. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets and meet our debt service requirements. The process of integrating newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not complete expansion projects or make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to complete expansion and construction projects and make acquisitions. We may be unable to complete successful expansion and construction projects or make accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons: • we are unable to identify attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates or we are outbid by competitors; • we are unable to obtain necessary governmental approvals; • we are unable to raise financing for such expansions or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • we are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the expanded or acquired facilities. Recently, competition from other buyers for natural gas pipelines and related assets and businesses has intensified. This competition may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. If any of these events occurred, our future growth could be limited. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Mergers among our customers and/or competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers among our existing customers and/or competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize systems other than ours and we could experience difficulty in replacing lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Possible terrorist activities or military actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas, which could affect the markets for our natural gas transportation and storage services. In addition, it has been reported that terrorists might target domestic energy facilities. While we are taking steps that we believe are appropriate to increase the security of our energy assets, there is no assurance that we can completely secure our assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we might experience increased capital or operating costs to implement increased security. Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. Affiliates of Loews own 85.5% of the interests in us and own and control our general partner, which controls us. Our general partner makes all of our important decisions, including among others those relating to the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities, cash reserves, capital expenditures and distributions to unitholders. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Loews. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner may be directors or officers of our general partners’ affiliates, including Loews. Conflicts of interest may arise between Loews and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Loews and its affiliates may engage in competition with us; • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Loews or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Loews and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of its shareholders, which may be contrary to our interests. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual obligations; • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Loews and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Common units are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by a majority of the owners of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of our general partner's limited call rights, as provided in our partnership agreement, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its right to cause us to register resale of our units held by it under the Securities Act of 1933, and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; • provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership; • generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries, Texas Gas and Gulf South, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash distributions to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to a material amount of entity-level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any additional state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash distributions to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our counsel’s conclusions. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, because the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, any such contest will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if such unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not such unitholders receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to such unitholders share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from such unitholders share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, such unitholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholders tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income our unitholders were allocated for a common unit, which decreased such unitholders tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to such unitholders if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to our unitholders. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a decrease in the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could decrease the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We will initially conduct business in twelve states. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 