Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe have substantial indebtedness, which could have adverse consequences to us, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, including servicing our indebtedness.We currently have substantial indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us and to you and your investment. For example, our level of indebtedness may: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to use for operations, investments, future business opportunities and other general corporate purposes; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default or an inability to borrow under the agreements governing such indebtedness;•in the case of a default or an event of default, as applicable, lead to, among other things, cross-defaults with our other indebtedness, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy; •result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings; •place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to others in the industry as it is not common for companies involved in the retail apparel business to operate with such high leverage; •heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the retail industry; or •reduce our ability to carry out our plans to expand our store base, product offerings and sales channels.Our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate cash from internal operations sufficient to make required payments on such indebtedness, which is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, some of which factors are further described in this “Risk Factors” section. We are permitted by the terms of our indebtedness, including our senior secured notes and the Capital One Credit Facility (as defined below), to incur additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. We have experienced negative cash flows from operating activities in the past, and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Such event could have a material adverse effect on us and we may need to take various actions, which also could have material adverse consequences to us, including seeking to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or equity financing or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or investments, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our business activities, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have material adverse consequences to us.The terms of our indebtedness contain, and our future indebtedness may contain, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements include, or may include, covenants relating to limitations on: •dividends on, and redemptions and repurchases of, capital stock; •payments on subordinated debt; •liens and sale-leaseback transactions; •loans and investments; •debt and hedging arrangements; •mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; •transactions with affiliates; •disposals of assets; •changes in business activities conducted by us and our subsidiaries; and •capital expenditures, including to fund future store openings.Under the Capital One Credit Facility, we were in violation of certain covenants for the twelve consecutive fiscal months ended September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2013, and we anticipated a violation for the twelve months ended March 31, 2014. On November 14, 2013, we entered into a third amendment to the Capital One Credit Facility, which among other things, waived the obligation to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio for the twelve consecutive fiscal month period ending September 30, 2013. As a condition to the waiver, we agreed to a one percentage point increase in the interest rate to either LIBOR plus 4.5% or the bank's prime rate plus 3.5% (at our option) and limitations on 13Table of Contentsamounts available to be borrowed, consisting of the imposition of a reserve against the line that gradually reduced the total borrowing capacity to $47,500 and certain amendments to the borrowing base calculation. On March 25, 2014, we entered into a fifth amendment to the Capital One Credit Facility which, effective upon its receipt of at least $25,000 of net proceeds from a financing prior to April 15, 2014, among other things: waives the obligation to maintain the minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage ratios for the three month periods ended December 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014; resets for future periods the fixed charge coverage ratio, the maximum leverage ratio and the maximum capital expenditures allowed; adds a minimum EBITDA covenant; increases the interest rate payable under the credit agreement by 0.5% per annum to either LIBOR plus 5.0% or the bank's prime rate plus 4.0% (at our option); and increases the fees payable upon early termination. Under the indenture governing our senior secured notes, a special interest trigger event occurred as of December 31, 2013 because our consolidated total net leverage ratio, as calculated under the indenture, exceeded 4.50 to 1.00. As a result, interest on the senior secured notes now accrues at a rate of 15% annum, with the interest in excess of 13% per annum payable in-kind for any interest payment date prior to April 15, 2018 and in cash for any interest payment date thereafter. The additional 2% per annum of interest accrues retroactively from the issue date of the senior secured notes. Similarly, because of the special interest trigger event, the interest rate on the Lion Loan Agreement also increased from 18% to 20% per annum with the additional 2% payable retroactively from the date of the loan agreement. Interest under the loan agreement is payable in cash or, to the extent permitted by our other debt agreements, in-kind. We are currently paying the interest under the Lion Loan Agreement in cash as the terms of our other debt agreements do not currently permit payment in-kind.In addition, our credit agreements contain, and any future credit agreements or loan agreements may contain, certain financial and maintenance covenants, including covenants relating to our capital expenditures, fixed charge coverage, borrowing availability and leverage, some of which may be tied to consolidated EBITDA, in each case as defined in the applicable debt agreements. Such restrictive and other covenants could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to provide for unanticipated capital requirements or to take advantage of business or acquisition opportunities. In addition, our failure to comply with the various covenants under our indebtedness could have material adverse consequences to us. Such failure may result in our being unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, which we utilize to access our working capital, and as a result may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or pursue our expansion plans. Our debt agreements contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions by which non-compliance with covenants, or the acceleration of other indebtedness of at least a specified outstanding principal amount, could also constitute an event of default under such debt agreements. Accordingly, such a failure could result in the acceleration of all of our outstanding debt, and may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing that may be necessary to effectively operate our business and grow the business going forward. In addition, substantially all of our assets are used to secure our indebtedness, including loans under our credit agreements, our senior secured notes and certain equipment leasing agreements. In the event of a default on these agreements, substantially all of our assets could be subject to liquidation by the creditors, which liquidation could result in no assets being left for the stockholders after the creditors receive their required payment. In such an event, we would be required to seek alternative sources of liquidity, and there can be no assurance that any alternative source of liquidity would be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Fluctuations in our results of operations from quarter to quarter could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations.We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income. Historically, sales during the third and fourth fiscal quarters have generally been the highest, with sales during the first fiscal quarter being the lowest. Any factors that harm our third or fourth quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year.In order to prepare for our peak selling season, we must produce and keep in stock more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak selling season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit.A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations, which could cause a decrease in our earnings.14Table of ContentsSignificant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share, as well as future cash flows.We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower U.S.-based revenue. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of local operating expenses. Our stock price may be volatile.Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of quarter to quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results or the financial results of other companies in the retail and apparel industries. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. In addition, the fluctuation of our stock price also could cause us to fail to meet listing standards on the NYSE MKT if our stock price trades at a low price per share for a substantial period of time and we fail to effect a reverse split of our shares. If we are unable to maintain the listing of the common stock on the NYSE MKT or any other securities exchange, it may be more difficult for you to sell your securities. The common stock is currently traded on the NYSE MKT. On February 28, 2014, we received a letter from NYSE MKT indicating that we are not in compliance with the continued listing standards of NYSE MKT set forth in Section 1003(a)(iv) of the NYSE MKT LLC Company Guide. In order to maintain its listing, we have submitted a plan of compliance by addressing how we intend to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide by April 15, 2014. If the plan is accepted, we may be able to continue our listing but will be subject to periodic review by NYSE MKT. If the plan is not accepted or if we do not make progress consistent with the plan by April 15, 2014, NYSE MKT will initiate delisting proceedings as appropriate. No assurance can be given that we will regain compliance with those listing requirements or that we will continue to meet the listing requirements of NYSE MKT in the future. If for any reason the NYSE MKT should delist the common stock, and we are unable to obtain listing on another national securities exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; •a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and •a determination that the common stock is a “penny stock,” if the securities sell for a substantial period of time at a low price per share which would require brokers trading in the common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for the common stock. There will be a substantial number of shares of our common stock available for issuance or sale in the future that would result in dilution to existing public stockholders, may increase the volume of common stock available for sale in the open market and may cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Dov Charney and our warrant-holders currently own or have the right to acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Charney owned 47.2 million shares of our common stock and has the contractual right to receive, upon the satisfaction of certain performance conditions or stock price thresholds, up to an additional 25.0 million shares of our common stock. We also have outstanding warrants exercisable to purchase an aggregate of 21.6 million shares of our common stock. Mr. Charney and Lion Capital LLP ("Lion") also have certain registration rights with respect to their shares of common stock (in the case of Lion, the shares underlying its warrants).As of December 31, 2013 assuming (i) issuance in full of the shares of common stock that Mr. Charney has a right to purchase or receive as described above, (ii) exercise in full of the warrants described above (including new warrants issuable to Lion if such shares are issued to Mr. Charney), (iii) exercise in full of currently outstanding employee options to purchase, vesting of unvested restricted stock awards, including issuance of contingent employee restricted stock awards and options, with respect to a total of 25.0 million shares of common stock and (iv) no other issuances of common stock or securities convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for common stock, the percentage ownership of stockholders other than Mr. Charney, the Investors (as defined below), and holders of outstanding warrants as described above would be reduced from approximately 45% to approximately 30%.15Table of ContentsVoting control by our executive officers, directors, lenders and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.As of March 31, 2014, Mr. Charney beneficially owned approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock and Lion beneficially owned approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Charney and Lion also have the right to acquire additional beneficial ownership under certain circumstances as described above.In addition, Mr. Charney and Lion are parties to an investment agreement pursuant to which Lion has the right to designate up to two directors on our Board of Directors and a board observer (or, if we increase our board size to 12, up to three directors and no board observers), subject to maintaining certain minimum ownership thresholds of common stock or shares of common stock issuable under Lion's warrants. The investment agreement also restricts us from increasing the size of our Board of Directors to more than 10 directors (or 13 directors in the event we elect to increase the size of our Board of Directors to 12 directors as described above). The two Lion designees on our board of directors and Lion's board observer resigned on March 30, 2011. Lion retains its ability to re-designate directors to our board of directors and a board observer.Mr. Charney and Lion also are parties to an investment voting agreement which provides that, for so long as Lion has the right to designate any person or persons to the Board of Directors, Mr. Charney will vote his shares of common stock in favor of Lion's designees, and Lion will vote its shares of common stock in favor of Mr. Charney and each other designee of Mr. Charney, in each case subject to Mr. Charney maintaining certain minimum ownership thresholds of common stock.This concentration of share ownership and agreements may adversely affect the trading price for the common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Also, some or all of our significant stockholders, if they were to act together, would be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders and may prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the current market price for their shares of common stock. Furthermore, our significant stockholders may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote their shares of common stock in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Purchases of retail apparel merchandise are generally discretionary and economic conditions may cause a decline in consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, particularly in discretionary areas such as fashion apparel. Our business and financial performance, including our sales and the collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by any future decreases in economic activity in the markets we serve that could potentially cause a decline in consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, increased unemployment levels, higher fuel and energy costs, rising interest rates, adverse conditions in the housing markets, financial market volatility, recession, decreased access to credit, reduced consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, acts of terrorism, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. A decrease in consumer discretionary spending as a result of economic conditions may decrease the demand for our products. In addition, reduced consumer spending may cause us to lower prices, or drive us to offer additional products at promotional prices, any of which would have a negative impact on gross profit.Our ability to meet customers' demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from our suppliers. Global financial conditions may materially and adversely affect the ability of our suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and adversely impact consumer purchases and our financial results. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price.If we are unable to gauge fashion trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease.Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. The retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for our market, our sales will be adversely affected. Merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect 16Table of Contentson our image with our customers and on our operating results. Fluctuations in the apparel retail market affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be manufactured in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail apparel business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. As a result, we will be vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise production. If sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may lower planned margins. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe we are no longer able to offer the latest fashion. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect our financial results by decreasing sales.Our failure to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and reduce demand for our merchandise.Our trademarks and service marks, and certain other intellectual property, have been registered, or are the subject of pending applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. Our products are noted for their quality and fit, and our edgy, distinctive branding has differentiated us in the marketplace. As such, the trademark and variations thereon are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We intend to continue to vigorously protect our trademark and brand against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademark would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. If we fail to maintain the value and image of our brand, our sales are likely to decline.Our success depends on the value and image of our brand. Our name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation or those of our senior personnel were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales.Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping areas in which they are located.In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping areas. Net sales at these stores are partly dependent on the volume of traffic in those shopping areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of a shopping area's other tenants to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the shopping areas. We cannot control the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping areas, competition with other retailers for prominent locations or the success of individual shopping areas. In addition, factors beyond our control impact shopping area traffic, such as economic conditions nationally or in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, changes in consumer demographics in a particular market, the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the shopping areas where our stores are located, deterioration in the financial conditions of the operators of the shopping areas or developers and consumer spending levels. A significant decrease in shopping area traffic could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, in pursuing our growth strategy, we will be competing with other retailers for prominent locations within the same successful shopping areas. If we are unable to secure these locations or unable to renew store leases on acceptable terms as they expire from time-to-time we may not be able to continue to attract the number or quality of customers we normally have attracted or would need to attract to sustain our projected growth. All these factors may also impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Our growth strategy relies in part on the opening of new stores, the remodeling of existing stores and expanding our business internationally, which may strain our resources, adversely impact the performance of our existing store base and delay or prevent successful penetration into international markets.Our growth strategy and the success of our business depends in part on the opening of new retail stores, both domestically and internationally, the renewal of existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets, the remodeling of existing stores in a timely manner, and the operation of these stores in a cost-efficient manner. Successful implementation of this portion of our growth strategy depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our ability to: •identify and obtain suitable store locations and negotiate acceptable leases for these locations; •complete store design and remodeling projects on time and on budget; •manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; •generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plan and remain in compliance with the capital expenditure covenant and other relevant covenants in our credit facilities that may limit our ability to fund such expansion plans; •manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; 17Table of Contents•avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores; •hire, train and retain qualified store managers and sales people.•gain acceptance from foreign customers;•manage foreign exchange risks effectively;•address existing and changing legal, regulatory and political environments in target foreign markets; and •manage international growth, if any, in a manner that does not unduly strain our financial, operating and management resources.Our plans to expand our store base and to remodel certain existing stores may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our revenues even though they increase our costs. Additionally, new stores that we open may place increased demands on our existing financial, operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could cause us to operate less effectively. Our ability to obtain real estate to open new stores in desirable locations depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, which includes, among other items, projected foot traffic, square footage, customer demographics and whether we are able to negotiate lease terms that meet our operating budget. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases from time to time. Failure to secure real estate in desirable locations on economically beneficial terms or to renew leases on existing store locations on economically beneficial terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Further, our ability to fund expansion in the future and other capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash from internal operations (after taking into account our debt service obligations and subject to the covenants in our debt agreements) or to access financing, which ability is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control and which financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Furthermore, it is possible that by opening a new store in an existing market, we could adversely affect the previously existing stores in that market by drawing away traffic from the previously existing stores. Our new stores may not be immediately profitable and, as such, we may incur losses until these stores become profitable. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores would adversely affect our results of operations.We anticipate that we will incur significant costs related to starting up and maintaining additional foreign operations. Costs may include, and will not be limited to, setting up foreign offices and hiring experienced management. These increased demands may cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the performance of our stores. Furthermore, our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.Our plans to expand our product offerings and sales channels may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position.Our ability to grow our existing brand and develop or identify new growth opportunities depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives. Failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These plans involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including:•implementation of these plans may be delayed or may not be successful; •if our expanded product offerings and sales channels fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease; •implementation of these plans may divert management's attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems.In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to expand our product offerings may be affected by, among other things, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and fashion trends. Our expansion plans could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business; any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability.We depend on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of such personnel, or we fail to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel.We depend on the efforts and skills of our management team and other key personnel, and the loss of services of one or more members of this team, each of whom have substantial experience in the apparel industry, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our senior officers closely supervise all aspects of our business, in particular the design and production of 18Table of Contentsmerchandise and the operation of our stores. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified management or if any member of our management leaves, such departure could have an adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. In particular, we believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of Dov Charney. The loss of Dov Charney would be particularly harmful as he is considered intimately connected to our brand identity and is the principal driving force behind our core concepts, designs and growth strategy.Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising and marketing areas, and other functions. In addition, if we experience material growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented design and marketing personnel in the apparel industry is intensely competitive, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, our growth will be hampered and our operating results could be materially adversely affected.Unionization of employees at our facilities could result in increased risk of work stoppages and high labor costs.Our employees are not party to any collective bargaining agreement or union. If employees at our manufacturing or distribution facilities were to unionize, our relationship with our employees could be adversely affected. We would also face an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs. Accordingly, unionization of our employees could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs and financial condition and could force us to raise prices on our products, curtail operations and/or relocate all or a portion of our operations overseas.Cost increases in, or shortages of, the materials or labor used to manufacture our products could negatively impact our business and financial condition.The manufacture of our products is labor intensive and utilizes raw materials supplied by third parties. An important part of American Apparel branding and marketing is that our products are made in the United States. The Federal Trade Commission has stated that for a product to be called “Made in USA”, or claimed to be of domestic origin without qualifications or limits on the claim, the product must be “all or virtually all” made in the United States. The term “United States” includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories and possessions. “All or virtually all” means that all significant parts and processing that go into the product must be of U.S. origin. That is, the product should contain no - or negligible - foreign content. We meet the Federal Trade Commission's “Made in USA” standard and from the knitting process to the final sewing of a garment, all of the processes are conducted in the United States, either directly by us in our knitting, manufacturing, dyeing and finishing facilities located in Los Angeles or through commission knitters, dyers and sewers in the Los Angeles metropolitan area and other regions in the United States. If the cost of labor materially increases, our financial results could be materially adversely affected and our ability to compete against companies with lower labor costs could be hampered. Material increases in labor costs in the United States could also force us to move all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas, which could adversely affect our brand identity. Similarly, increases in the prices of raw materials or the prices we pay to the suppliers of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products, and shortages in such materials, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the price of yarn and the cost of certain related fabrics has historically fluctuated. Such shortages may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and we are unable to predict whether we will be able to successfully pass on the added cost of raw materials to our wholesale and retail customers. In addition, increases in the cost of, or shortages in, our raw material inputs could adversely affect our ability to compete. Further, we could be forced to seek to offset any increased raw material costs by relocating all or a portion of our manufacturing overseas to locations with lower labor costs.Our manufacturing operations are located and will be located in higher-cost geographic locations, placing us at a possible disadvantage to competitors that have a higher percentage of their manufacturing operations overseas.Despite the general industry-wide migration of manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia, our textile manufacturing operations are still located in the United States, which is a higher-cost location relative to these offshore locations. In addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than we, which also places us at a cost disadvantage. Our competitor's lower costs of production may allow them to offer their products at a lower price than our selling prices for similar products. This could force us to lower our margins or to compete more vigorously with non-price competitive strategies to preserve our margins and sales volume.Our reliance on operational facilities located in the same vicinity makes our business susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting the location of our facilities.19Table of ContentsWe conduct all of our manufacturing operations in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. Specifically, we operate principally out of an 800,000 square foot facility in downtown Los Angeles, which houses our executive offices, as well as our cutting and sewing operations. Our distribution operations are located in La Mirada, California. We also operate the following: a knitting facility in Los Angeles, California; a cutting, sewing, garment dyeing and finishing facility in South Gate, California; a fabric dyeing and finishing facility in Hawthorne, California; as well as a a cutting, sewing, fabric dyeing and finishing facility in Garden Grove, California. As a result of geographic concentration, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, and demographic and population changes, as well as other unforeseen events and circumstances.Southern California is particularly susceptible to earthquakes. Any significant interruption in the operation of any of these facilities could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, canceled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. Furthermore, if there were a major earthquake, we may have to cease operations for a significant portion of time due to possible damage to our factory or inability to deliver products to our distribution center.The process of upgrading our information technology infrastructure may disrupt our operations. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory and production, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. We have performed an evaluation of our information technology systems and requirements and have implemented upgrades to our information technology systems supporting the business. These upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. There are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could-especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season-result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline.Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers.A failure in our Internet operations could significantly disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage. Our online retail operations accounted for approximately 10% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 and are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results. Risks to online revenue include, but are not limited to, the following: •changes in consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage; •changes in required technology interfaces; •web site downtime; •difficulty in recreating the in-store experience on our website; and•risks related to the failure of the systems that operate the web sites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales and damage our brand's reputation.Failure to protect the integrity and security of our information systems and our customers’ information could materially, adversely affect our results of operations, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation.Our operations, including sales through our e-commerce website and retail stores, involve the collection, storage and transmission of customers' credit card information and personal identification data, as well as employee information and non-public company data. The costs associated with maintaining the security of such information, including increased investments in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws, and costs resulting from consumer fraud or a malicious breach of our information systems, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If the security of the customer data stored on our servers or transmitted by our networks were breached, our reputation may be materially adversely affected, which could negatively impact our sales results, and we may be subject to litigation. To date, we have not experienced a significant security breach.20Table of ContentsWe operate in the highly competitive retail and apparel industries and our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by the significant number of competitors in our industries that may compete more effectively than we can.The apparel industry is characterized by rapid shifts in fashion, consumer demand and competitive pressures, resulting in both price and demand volatility. The retail apparel industry, in general, and the imprintable apparel market, specifically, is fragmented and highly competitive. Prices of certain products we manufacture, particularly T-shirts, are determined based on market conditions, including the price of raw materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and Internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger, have substantially greater name recognition than we do and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and, therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. We also face competition in European, Asian and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains. Our success in these markets depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these challenging retail environments. If our international business is not successful our results of operations could be adversely affected.The wholesale business competes with numerous wholesale companies based on the quality, fashion, availability, and price of our wholesale product offerings. Many of these companies have greater name recognition than American Apparel in the wholesale market. Many of these companies also have greater financial and other resources when compared to American Apparel. If we cannot successfully compete with these companies, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Elimination or scaling back of U.S. import protections would weaken an important barrier to the entry of foreign competitors who produce their merchandise in lower labor cost locations. This could place us at a disadvantage to those competitors.Our products are subject to foreign competition. Foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages, which can enable them to sell their products at relatively lower prices. However, foreign competitors have faced significant U.S. government import restrictions in the form of tariffs and quotas. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to political considerations, and is therefore unpredictable. Given the number of foreign low cost producers, the substantial elimination or scaling back of the import protections that protect domestic apparel producers such as American Apparel could have a material adverse effect on our business and the financial condition and results of operation.Because we utilize foreign suppliers and sell into foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition.Our international operations subject us to risks, including: •economic and political instability; •restrictive actions by foreign governments; •greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights;•changes in import duties or import or export restrictions; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect profit margins; •timely shipping of product;•complications complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the exportation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes; and •complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. These and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the supply of our products, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all, inhibit our suppliers' ability to procure certain materials and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely heavily on immigrant labor, and changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results.We rely heavily on immigrant labor. Adverse changes to existing laws and regulations applicable to employment of immigrants, enforcement requirements or practices under those laws and regulations, and inspections or investigations by immigration authorities or the prospects or rumors of any of the foregoing, even if no violations exist, could negatively impact the availability and cost of personnel and labor to us. As a result, we could experience very substantial turnover of employees on short or no notice, which could result in manufacturing and other delays. We may also have difficulty attracting or hiring 21Table of Contentsnew employees in a timely manner, resulting in further delays. These delays could materially adversely affect our revenues and costs and our ability to compete. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain sufficient employees, our manufacturing capabilities, operations and financial results would be adversely affected.We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs.We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. We also are subject to numerous federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are currently defending five wage and hour suits. Should these matters be decided against us, we could incur substantial liability, experience an increase in similar suits, and suffer reputational harm. We are unable to predict the financial outcome of these matters at this time, and any views we form as to the viability of these claims or the financial exposure in which they could result may change. No assurance can be made that these matters will not result in material financial exposure, which together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of our pending litigation.Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business.Current environmental laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business.We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects (such as emissions to air, discharges to water, and the generation, handling, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes). We are also subject to laws, regulations and ordinances that impose liability for the costs of clean up or other remediation of contaminated property, including damages from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or wastes, in certain circumstances without regard to fault. Certain of our operations routinely involve the handling of chemicals and wastes, some of which are or may become regulated as hazardous substances. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations regarding the use and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict.As is the case with manufacturers in general, if a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal locations, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any of our properties, we may be held liable. The amount of such liability could be material. Litigation exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to regulatory inquiries, investigations, claims and suits. We are currently defending a consolidated putative shareholder class action, two consolidated shareholder derivative actions proceeding in federal and state court, respectively, five wage and hour suits, and numerous employment related claims and suits. In the event one or more of these matters are decided against us, we may incur substantial liability, experience an increase in similar suits or suffer reputational harm. We are unable to predict the financial outcome that could result from these matters at this time and any views we form as to the viability of these claims or the financial exposure in which they could result could change from time to time as the matters proceed through their course, as facts are established and various judicial determinations are made. No assurance can be made that these matters will not result in material financial exposure, which together with the potential for similar suits and reputational harm, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. See the section entitled “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of American Apparel's pending litigation.We are currently being audited by government tax agencies regarding our operating activities in previous periods which may result in an assessment of a material amount, the payment of which may adversely impact our financial conditions and operations.22Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2013, we are being audited by Government agencies in various jurisdictions in regards to sales, VAT, income, and other taxes and customs duties for certain previous years. In connection with one such audit, the German customs authority has issued retroactive assessments on our imports totaling €3,634 or $5,003 at the December 31, 2013 exchange rates. Although we believe that we properly assess and remit all required sales, VAT, income, and other taxes and customs duties in Germany and other applicable jurisdictions, no assurance can be made that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, disruptions in our operations in Germany as a result of customs enforcement actions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our E.U. business and operations.Third party failure to deliver merchandise to stores and customers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise.The efficient operation of our stores and wholesale business depends on the timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution centers. Independent third party transportation companies deliver a substantial portion of our merchandise to our stores. These shippers may not continue to ship our products at current pricing or terms. These shippers may employ personnel represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees or contractors of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in canceled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. There can be no assurance that such stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. Any failure by these third parties to respond adequately to our distribution needs would disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income.We have potentially adverse exposure to credit risks on our wholesale sales.We are exposed to the risk of financial non-performance by our customers, primarily in our wholesale business. Sales to wholesale customers represented approximately 28% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our extension of credit involves considerable use of judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition and payment history. We monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials of our customers. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses based upon historical trends and other available information. However, delays in collecting or the inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.23Table of Contents