Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in your evaluation of our business and us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed and the price of our stock could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend heavily on U.S. Government contracts, and a decline in the U.S. defense budget or a delay in the completion of the U.S. Government’s budget process could result in adverse consequences on our business. We depend on our contracts with U.S. Government agencies for a significant portion of our revenues and, if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. We are heavily dependent upon the U.S. Government as our primary customer and we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in U.S. Government contract programs. We generated 87%, 88% and 88% of our total consolidated revenues from the U.S. Government (including all branches of the U.S. military) in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We generated 10% or more of our consolidated revenues during the last three fiscal years from one or more of the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from work performed under U.S. Government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. Government, and in particular with the agencies of the Department of Defense (DoD) and the U.S. intelligence community, are key factors in maintaining and growing revenues under contracts with the U.S. Government. Negative press reports regarding poor contract performance, employee misconduct, information security breaches or other aspects of our business could harm our reputation, particularly with these agencies. If our reputation with these agencies is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, the amount of business with the U.S. Government would decrease and our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. A decline in the U.S. defense budget or changes in budgetary priorities may adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Revenues under contracts with the DoD, including subcontracts under which the DoD is the ultimate purchaser, represented 70% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008. Changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. Government, or the DoD, could directly affect our operating results. While spending authorizations for defense-related programs by the U.S. Government have increased in recent years, and in particular after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, these spending levels may not be sustainable, and future levels of spending and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities could occur due to changes in the number of and intensity of political conflicts, including the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the significant relief and recovery costs associated with natural disasters, the rapid growth of the federal budget deficit, increasing political pressure to reduce overall levels of government spending, or other factors. In addition, the U.S. Government conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, the results of which may shift DoD budgetary priorities or reduce overall U.S. Government spending for defense-related programs, including programs from which we expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues. A significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, or a significant shift in its spending priorities, or the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs, would adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. A delay in the completion of the U.S. Government’s budget process could delay procurement of the services and solutions we provide and have an adverse effect on our future revenues. In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a “continuing resolution” that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the services and solutions we provide. We have from time to time experienced a decline in revenues in our fourth quarter ending January 31 and beyond as a result of this annual budget cycle, and we could experience similar declines in revenues if the budget process is delayed significantly in future years. When supplemental budgets are required to operate the U.S. Government and passage of legislation needed to approve any supplemental budget is delayed, the overall funding environment for our Government segment could be adversely affected. 6 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report PART I Our failure to comply with a variety of procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, and changes in government regulations or practices could adversely affect our profitability, cash balances or growth prospects. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to penalties and the termination of our U.S. Government contracts. Some significant regulations that affect us include: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts The U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations, such as Cost Accounting Standards, at any time. In addition, the U.S. Government may face restrictions or pressure regarding the amount of services it may obtain from private contractors. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew contracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition bids. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues. Recent and proposed legislation, which if adopted, may potentially result in added costs on our business and our failure to comply with new laws and regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Congressional legislation and initiatives dealing with procurement reform and shifts in the buying practices of government agencies resulting from those proposals could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Potential changes under consideration include continued attempts to increase the use of fixed price contracts which would transfer the assumption of some risks from the U.S. Government to the performing contractors. The FY08 National Defense Authorization Act contains a number of acquisition policy changes that, depending upon enactment language, could lead to changes in government procurement policy that could negatively impact our current business practices. Additionally, recent increases in congressional scrutiny and investigations into business practices and into major programs supported by contractors could lead to increased legal costs and has the potential to adversely effect the reputation and profitability of targeted companies. Our business is subject to audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, and our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to review and investigation which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects. U.S. Government agencies routinely audit and review their contractors’ performance on contracts, cost structure, pricing practices and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Such audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs, and any costs found to be improperly allocated will not be reimbursed. All of our indirect contract costs have been agreed upon through fiscal 2004 and are not subject to further adjustment. We have recorded contract revenues in fiscal 2005 through 2008 based upon costs we believe will be approved upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and, if future audit adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability could be adversely affected. Additionally, our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to review and investigation. If such a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Government agencies. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. We are from time to time subject to investigations by the DoD and other agencies. Although we have never had material penalties or administrative sanctions imposed upon us, such penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in the industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our profitability, cash position and future prospects could be adversely affected. We derive significant revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. Due to this competitive pressure, we may be unable to sustain our revenue growth and profitability. We obtain many of our contracts with the U.S. Government through a competitive bidding process and expect that much of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process imposes substantial costs and SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 7 PART I presents a number of risks, including the substantial cost and managerial time we spend to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us, our failure to accurately estimate the resources and costs that will be required to service any contract we win, and the risk that we may encounter expense, delay or modifications to previously awarded contracts as a result of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would adversely affect our revenues and/or profitability. The U.S. Government may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may be unable to sustain our revenue growth and may suffer a decline in revenues. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may modify, curtail or terminate the contracts and subcontracts at its convenience. Any decision by the U.S. Government not to exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues and revenue growth. We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. As of January 31, 2008, our total consolidated backlog was $15.0 billion, which included $5.1 billion in funded backlog. Due to the U.S. Government’s ability to not exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our major programs or contracts and the rights of our customers in our Commercial segment to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains management’s estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our expected future revenue and growth prospects may be adversely affected. We use estimates when entering into various contractual commitments and in recognizing revenues. If we are unable to accurately estimate the costs, time and resources or to effectively manage and control costs associated with these contractual commitments, or if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenue, our profitability may be adversely affected. Over the last three fiscal years, an average of 17% of our total consolidated revenues were derived from FFP contracts, in which we bear risk that actual costs may exceed the estimated costs on which the prices are negotiated. When making proposals on these types of contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of our work could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. Future losses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Revenues from our contracts are primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based on progress towards completion, with performance measured by the cost-to-cost method, efforts-expended method or units-of-delivery method, all of which require estimates of total costs at completion. Estimating costs at completion on our long-term contracts, particularly due to the technical nature of the services being performed, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Due to the size of many of our contracts, changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect future financial results. Systems failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During the year ended January 31, 2008, we began a phased implementation of a new information technology system to be used as our accounting system. The implementation is expected to be completed in multiple phases through fiscal 2010. The transition to the new information technology system includes a significant effort in the testing of the system prior to implementation, training of employees who will be using the system and updating of our internal control process and procedures that will be impacted by the implementation. System disruptions, including those caused by the implementation of the new information technology system, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. 8 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report PART I We are also subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our or our customers’ businesses, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. The systems and networks that we maintain for our customers could also fail. If a system or network that we maintain were to fail or experience service interruptions, we might experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we might incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. We face aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. Our business is highly competitive in both the Government and Commercial segments. We compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs. We also compete with smaller, more specialized entities that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. In the Government segment, we compete with the U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. To remain competitive, we must provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes could require us to pay potentially large damage awards, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability. We are subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of litigation or other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. The litigation and other claims described in this report are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. Our failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy. The availability of highly trained and skilled technical, professional and management personnel is critical to our future growth and profitability. Competition for scientists, engineers, technicians and professional and management personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. In addition, many U.S. Government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and personnel with security clearances are in great demand. Because of our growth and increased competition for experienced personnel, particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to meet all of our needs for these employees in a timely manner and this may affect our growth in the current fiscal year and in future years. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our strategy. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to generate new business. Our inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities. Employee misconduct, including security breaches, or our failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to our business could cause us to lose customers or our ability to contract with the U.S. Government. Because we are a U.S. Government contractor, misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees or our failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with U.S. Government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in U.S. Government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. Many of the systems we develop involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from having access to such critically sensitive systems. Employee misconduct could also involve data security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use of our customer’s sensitive or classified information, which could result in remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. Other examples of potential employee misconduct include time card fraud and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government, any of which would adversely affect our business and reputation. SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 9 PART I Our services and operations sometimes involve using, handling or disposing of hazardous materials, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities. Our services sometimes involve the investigation or remediation of environmental hazards, as well as the use, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. These activities and our operations generally subject us to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, which, among other things, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations and could impose liability on us for contamination. Furthermore, failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws could result in civil or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Additionally, our ownership and operation of real property also subjects us to environmental protection laws, some of which hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for contamination, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the contamination. Although we have not incurred any significant costs related to environmental matters to date, any violations of, or liabilities pursuant to, these laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures could result in operating difficulties and other adverse consequences to our business. Growth through acquisitions of new businesses, investments and joint ventures is an important part of our strategy and we expect that a significant portion of our planned growth will continue to come from these transactions. We evaluate potential acquisitions, investments and joint ventures on an ongoing basis. Our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures pose many risks, including: • we may not be able to compete successfully for available acquisition candidates, complete future acquisitions and investments or accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business • future acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to issue capital stock or spend significant cash or may result in a decrease in our operating income or operating margins and we may be unable to recover investments made in any such acquisitions • we may have trouble integrating acquired businesses or retaining their personnel or customers • acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or divestitures may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities • we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures, which could adversely affect our operations • acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably • we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or unknown, of acquired companies which could be material • we may not realize anticipated synergies and acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance • divestitures may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through indemnification, guarantees or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction. Losses on disposal or non-performance by those divested businesses with whom we have continuing financial involvement could affect our financial results • a downturn in our business could result in the write-off of goodwill and acceleration of the amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions If our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures fail or perform poorly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In conducting our business, we depend on other contractors and subcontractors. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the U.S. Government, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractor’s personnel or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. Government. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or 10 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report PART I joint venture relationships with us, or if the U.S. Government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Additionally, companies that do not initially have access to U.S. Government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor for a U.S. Government customer, and through that exposure secure future positions as prime U.S. Government contractors. If any of our current subcontractors were awarded prime contractor status in the future, not only would we have to compete with them for future U.S. Government contracts, but our ability to perform our current and future contracts might also be impaired. We face risks associated with our international business. Approximately 2%, 3% and 3% of our total consolidated revenues in each of fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was generated by our entities outside of the United States. Additionally, our domestic entities periodically enter into contracts with foreign customers. These international business operations are subject to a variety of the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • changes in or interpretations of foreign laws, regulations or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits to the United States • the imposition of tariffs • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures • conducting business in places where laws, business practices and customs are unfamiliar or unknown • the imposition of restrictive trade policies • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations • the imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal and arbitration proceedings • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, by us or key subcontractors • compliance with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers • fluctuations in currency exchange rates Although revenues derived from our international operations have been relatively low, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our business in the future and any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with U.S. Government laws and regulations applicable to international business like the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. Government. Additionally, these risks relating to international operations may expose us to potentially significant contract losses. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and in particular the following: • a reduction of government funding or delay in the completion of the U.S. Government’s budget process • decisions by the U.S. Government not to exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our major programs or contracts SAIC, Inc. Annual Report 11 PART I • failure to accurately estimate or control costs under firm-fixed-price (FFP) contracts • adverse judgments or settlements in contractual disputes, legal disputes or legal compliance issues • expenses related to restructuring actions, acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures • other one-time financial charges • seasonality of our business Risks Relating to Our Stock The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our employee benefit plans, executive officers, employees, former employees and directors and their respective affiliates limits the ability of common stockholders to influence corporate matters. As of January 31, 2008, our Class A preferred stock represented 57% of our outstanding capital stock. Our Class A preferred stock has 10 votes per share compared to our publicly-traded common stock which has one vote per share. The Class A preferred stock is held by our employee benefit plans, executive officers, employees, former employees and directors and their respective affiliates. They are able to exercise a majority of the voting power and for the foreseeable future, will have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. As a result of this dual-class structure, our employee benefit plans, executive officers, employees, former employees and directors and their respective affiliates may be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, even if they come to own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, except to the extent that holders of common stock may be entitled to vote as a separate class under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. This concentrated control limits the ability of the common stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our common stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These restrictions, which may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors not endorsed by our current directors and management, include the following: • Our certificate of incorporation provides for Class A preferred stock, which currently gives our employee benefit plans, executive officers, employees, former employees and directors and their respective affiliates voting control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other business combination that other stockholders may view as beneficial. • Our certificate of incorporation provides that our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may be amended by only two-thirds or more voting power of all of the outstanding shares entitled to vote. These supermajority voting requirements could impede our stockholders’ ability to make changes to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which could delay, discourage or prevent a merger, acquisition or business combination that other stockholders may consider favorable. • Our certificate of incorporation generally provides that mergers and certain other business combinations between us and a related person be approved by the holders of securities having at least 80% of our outstanding voting power, as well as by the holders of a majority of the voting power of such securities that are not owned by the related person. This supermajority voting requirement could prevent a merger, acquisition or business combination that our stockholders may consider favorable. • Our stockholders may not act by written consent or call special meetings. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are limited in their ability to take certain actions other than in connection with our annual stockholders’ meeting. • Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain restrictions on business combinations. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years, or among other things, the board of directors has approved the business combination or the transaction pursuant to which such person became a 15% holder prior to the time the person became a 15% holder. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 12 SAIC, Inc. Annual Report PART I Forward-Looking Statement Risks You may not be able to rely on forward-looking statements. This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management’s belief and assumptions about the future in light of information currently available to our management. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: • changes in the U.S. Government defense budget or budgetary priorities or delays in the U.S. budget process; • changes in U.S. Government procurement rules and regulations; • our compliance with various U.S. Government and other government procurement rules and regulations; • the outcome of U.S. Government audits of our company; • our ability to win contracts with the U.S. Government and others; • our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees; • our ability to maintain relationships with prime contractors, subcontractors and joint venture partners; • our ability to obtain required security clearances for our employees; • our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with our firm-fixed-price and other contracts; • resolution of legal and other disputes with our customers and others or legal compliance issues • our ability to acquire businesses and make investments; • our ability to manage risks associated with our international business; • our ability to compete with others in the markets in which we operate; and • our ability to execute our business plan and long-term management initiatives effectively and to overcome these and other known and unknown risks that we face. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those results anticipated by our forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements or to conform these statements to actual results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 