Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. All of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us should be carefully considered and evaluated. We may not complete expansion projects that we commence, or we may complete projects on materially different terms or timing than initially anticipated and we may not be able to achieve the intended benefits of any such project, if completed. We have announced significant expansion projects and may consider additional expansion projects in the future. We anticipate that we will be required to seek additional financing in the future to fund our current and future expansion projects and we may not be able to secure such financing on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, we may not be able to complete the expansion projects on time as a result of weather conditions, delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals, delays in obtaining key materials, labor difficulties and land owner opposition, difficulties with partners or potential partners or other factors beyond our control. If we do not meet designated schedules for approval and construction of our expansion projects, certain of our customers may have the right to terminate their precedent agreements relating to the expansion projects. Certain customers may also have the right to receive liquidated damages. Even if expansion projects are completed, the total costs of the expansion projects may be higher than anticipated and the performance of our business following the expansion projects may not meet expectations. Further, we may not be able to timely and effectively integrate the expansion projects into our operations, such integration may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs and the expansion projects might divert the attention of management from our other business concerns. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the expansion projects and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our natural gas transportation, gathering and storage operations are subject to FERC rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. Action by the FERC on currently pending matters as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our ability to establish rates, or to charge rates that would cover future increases in our costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to recover all of our costs through existing or future rates. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against Texas Gas or Gulf South could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On July 20, 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) issued its opinion in BP West Coast Products, LLC v. FERC (BP West Coast) and vacated the portion of the FERC’s decision applying the FERC’s Lakehead policy to determine an allowance for income taxes in the regulated cost of service. In its Lakehead decision, the FERC allowed an oil pipeline limited partnership to include in its cost of service an income tax allowance to the extent that its unitholders were corporations subject to income tax. The D.C. Circuit emphasized that a regulated pipeline’s cost of service should include only “appropriate cost[s]” and compared income taxes paid by owners of equity interests in a pipeline to the costs of bookkeeping paid by such owners, indicating the court’s belief that such costs paid by an entity other than the regulated entity would not be recoverable in the rates of the pipeline. In May and June 2005, the FERC issued a statement of general policy and an order on remand of BP West Coast, respectively, in which the FERC stated it will permit pipelines to include in cost-of-service a tax allowance to reflect actual or potential tax liability on their public utility income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests, if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. In December 2005, the FERC issued a case-specific review of the income tax allowance issue in the SFPP, L.P. proceeding. The FERC ruled favorably to SFPP, L.P. on all income tax issues and set forth guidelines regarding the type of evidence necessary for the pipeline to determine its income tax allowance. The FERC’s BP West Coast remand decision, the new tax allowance policy, and the December 2005 order have been appealed to the D.C. Circuit. As a result, the ultimate outcome of these proceedings is not certain and could result in changes to the FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service. If the FERC were to change its tax allowance policies in the future, or if current policy was reversed or changed on appeal by a court, such changes could materially and adversely impact the rates we are permitted to charge as future rates are approved for our interstate transportation services. 9 Our natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC in addition to the FERC rules and regulations related to the rates we can charge for our services. The FERC’s regulatory authority also extends to: · operating terms and conditions of service; · the types of services we may offer to our customers; · construction of new facilities; · creation, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; · accounts and records; and · relationships with certain types of affiliated companies involved in the natural gas business. The FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, the costs we incur in our operations, the construction of new facilities or our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. Another example is the time the FERC takes to approve the construction of new facilities, which could give our non-regulated competitors time to offer alternative projects or raise the costs of our projects to the point where they are no longer economical. The FERC has authority to review pipeline contracts. If the FERC determines that a term of any such contract deviates in a material manner from a pipeline’s tariff, the FERC typically will order the pipeline to remove the term from the contract and execute and re-file a new contract with the FERC, or alternatively, amend its tariff to include the deviating term, thereby offering it to all shippers. If the FERC audits a pipeline’s contracts and finds material deviations that appear to be unduly discriminatory, the FERC could conduct a formal enforcement investigation, resulting in serious penalties and/or onerous ongoing compliance obligations. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the future regulations under which we will operate our natural gas transportation and storage businesses, or the effect such regulation could have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Catastrophic losses are unpredictable. Catastrophic losses may be an inevitable part of our business. Various events can cause catastrophic losses, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, and severe winter weather and fires, the frequency and severity of these events are inherently unpredictable. Although we carry insurance, the coverage could be insufficient. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the environment which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and loss of revenues. The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in natural gas transportation and storage. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. These laws include, for example the Clean Air Act; the Water Pollution Control Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act; CERCLA or the Superfund law; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and analogous state laws. Such regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that our facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted in the future and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to our operations or facilities. For example, the federal government and several states have recently proposed increased environmental regulation of many industrial activities, including increased regulation of air quality, water quality and solid waste management. In addition, government action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other government actions that may have the effect of requiring or encouraging reduced consumption or production of natural gas, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with current or future environmental regulations could require significant expenditures and the failure to comply with current or future regulations might result in the imposition of fines and penalties. The steps we may be required to take to bring certain of our facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive and we may be required to shut down or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. Further, current rate structures, customer contracts and prevailing market conditions might not allow us to recover the additional costs incurred to comply with new environmental requirements and we might not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for certain projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, we may be required to shut down certain facilities or become subject to additional costs. The costs of complying with environmental regulation in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our natural gas transportation and storage operations such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We currently possess property, business interruption and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Pipeline safety integrity programs and repairs may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. The United States DOT Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) has issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as high consequence areas (HCAs) where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. The final rule requires operators to (1) perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity, (2) identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a HCA, (3) improve data collection, integration and analysis, (4) repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary and (5) implement preventive and mitigating actions. In compliance with the rule, we have initiated pipeline integrity testing programs that are intended to assess pipeline integrity. At this time, we cannot predict all of the effects this rule will have on us. However, the rule or an increase in public expectations for pipeline safety may require additional reporting, the replacement of some of our pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment, and more frequent inspection or testing of our pipeline facilities. Any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions may require significant capital and operating expenditures. Should we fail to comply with OPS rules and related regulations and orders, we could be subject to penalties and fines. We are subject to strict regulations at many of our facilities regarding employee safety. The workplaces associated with our pipelines are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local residents. The failure to comply with OSHA requirements or general industry standards, keep adequate records or monitor occupational exposure to regulated substances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Increased competition could have a significant financial impact on us. We compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. Competition is particularly strong in the Midwest and Gulf Coast states where we compete with numerous existing pipelines and several new pipeline projects that are under way, including the proposed Rockies Express Pipeline that would transport natural gas from northern Colorado to eastern Ohio, the Heartland Gas Pipeline currently being constructed in Indiana, the proposed Mid-Continent Express Pipeline that would transport gas from Texas to Alabama and the proposed Southeast Header Supply System that would transport gas from Perryville, Louisiana to markets in Florida. Natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The principle elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. The FERC’s policies promoting competition in gas markets are having the effect of increasing the gas transportation options for our traditional customer base. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by our pipeline systems or, in cases where we do not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force us to lower our transportation or storage rates. Competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our pipeline systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. We also compete against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over us and other interstate pipelines because of the absence of FERC regulation. In view of potential rate increases, construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, we may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because of the natural decline in gas production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas and this is dependent on factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our business and operating results. For the years 2003 to 2005, gas production from the Gulf Coast region, which supplies the majority of our throughput, has declined on average approximately 11% per year according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). A large part of this decline was due to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. We cannot give any assurance regarding the gas production industry’s ability to find new sources of domestic supply. Production from existing wells and gas supply basins connected to our pipelines will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with the gathering or transportation of gas from these wells and basins will also decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than we anticipate, or the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than we anticipate. Accordingly, to maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipelines, we must continually obtain access to new supplies of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new sources of natural gas to our pipelines include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity near our pipelines, (2) our ability to compete for these supplies, (3) the successful completion of new LNG facilities near our pipelines, and (4) our gas quality requirements. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is the price of oil and natural gas. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our pipelines, which would lead to reduced throughput levels on our pipelines. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budget limitations, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits, the availability and cost of drilling rigs and other drilling equipment, and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves were discovered in areas served by our pipelines, producers may choose not to develop those reserves or may connect them to different pipelines. Imported LNG is expected to be a significant component of future natural gas supply to the United States. Much of this increase in LNG supply is expected to be imported through new LNG facilities to be developed over the next decade. We cannot predict which, if any, of these projects will be constructed. We anticipate benefiting from some of these new projects and the additional gas supply they will bring to the Gulf Coast region. If a significant number of these new projects fail to be developed with their announced capacity, or there are significant delays in such development, or if they are built in locations where they are not connected to our systems or they do not influence sources of supply on our systems, we may not realize expected increases in future natural gas supply available for transportation through our systems. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, or if the expected increase in natural gas supply through imported LNG is not realized, throughput on our pipelines would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Capacity leaving our Lebanon, Ohio terminus is limited. The northeastern terminus of our Texas Gas pipeline system is in Lebanon, Ohio, where it connects with other interstate natural gas pipelines delivering to East Coast and Midwest metropolitan areas and other indirect markets. Pipeline capacity into Lebanon is approximately 48% greater than pipeline capacity leaving that point, creating a bottleneck for supply into areas of high demand. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 21% of our long-term contracts with firm deliveries to Lebanon expire by the end of 2007. While demand for natural gas from our Lebanon, Ohio terminus and other interconnects in that region has remained strong in the past, there can be no assurance regarding continued demand for gas from the Gulf Coast region, including East Texas, in the face of other sources of natural gas for our various indirect markets, including pipelines from Canada, a new proposed pipeline from the Rockies, and new LNG facilities proposed to be constructed along the East Coast. Successful development of LNG import terminals in the eastern United States could reduce the demand for our services. Development of new, or expansion of existing, LNG facilities on the East Coast could reduce the need for customers in the northeastern United States to transport natural gas from the Gulf Coast and other supply basins connected to our pipelines. This could reduce the amount of gas transported by our pipelines for delivery off-system to other interstate pipelines serving the Northeast. If we are not able to replace these volumes with volumes to other markets or other regions, throughput on our pipelines would decline which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 14% of the firm contract load on our pipeline systems was due to expire on or before December 31, 2007. Upon expiration, we may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. A key determinant of the value that customers can realize from firm transportation on a pipeline is the basis differential, which can be affected by, among other things, the availability of supply, available capacity, storage inventories, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: · existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to our markets; · the growth in demand for natural gas in our markets; · whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; · the current basis differentials, or market price spreads between two points on our pipelines; · whether our business strategy continues to be successful; and · the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ProLiance Energy, LLC and Atmos Energy accounted for approximately 18.35% of our total operating revenues. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts and those with other key customers on favorable terms. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, unless we are able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. We are exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by our customers. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by us to them, generally under PAL and NNS services. If any significant customer of ours should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 7A of this Report contains more information on credit risk arising from gas loaned to customers. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines. For example, our Gulf South pipeline can deliver approximately 500 MMcf per day to Texas Eastern at Kosciusko, Mississippi. If this or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect which caused a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Significant changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, reducing system throughput and adversely affecting our revenues and available cash. Higher natural gas prices could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas, and therefore, in the throughput on our pipelines. In addition, reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by our PAL and storage services and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply, changes in demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: · worldwide economic conditions; · weather conditions and seasonal trends; · levels of domestic production and consumer demand; · the availability of LNG; · a material decrease in the price of natural gas could have an adverse effect on the shippers who have contracted for capacity on our planned expansion projects; · the availability of adequate transportation capacity; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the effect of energy conservation measures; · the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and · the anticipated future prices of natural gas, LNG and other commodities. 14 Expansion projects and acquisitions involve risks that may adversely affect our business. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow our business through acquisitions, expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets. Any acquisition, expansion or new construction involves potential risks, including: · performance of our business following the acquisition, expansion or construction of assets that does not meet expectations; · a significant increase in our indebtedness and working capital requirements, which could, among other things, have an adverse impact on our credit ratings; · the inability to timely and effectively integrate into our operations the operations of newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets; · the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate; · diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; and · regulatory risks created by the nature or location of acquired businesses. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets and meet our debt service requirements. The process of integrating newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we do not complete expansion projects or make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to complete expansion and construction projects and make acquisitions. We may be unable to complete successful expansion and construction projects or make accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons: · we are unable to identify attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates or we are outbid by competitors; · we are unable to obtain necessary governmental approvals; · we are unable to raise financing for such expansions or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or · we are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the expanded or acquired facilities. Recently, competition from other buyers for natural gas pipelines and related assets and businesses has intensified. This competition may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. If any of these events occurred, our future growth could be limited. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Mergers among our customers and/or competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers among our existing customers and/or competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize systems other than ours and we could experience difficulty in replacing lost volumes and revenues. A reduction in volumes would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flows of a similar magnitude, which could reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations. Possible terrorist activities or military actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas, which could affect the markets for our natural gas transportation and storage services. While we are taking steps that we believe are appropriate to increase the security of our energy assets, there is no assurance that we can completely secure our assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we might experience increased capital or operating costs to implement increased security. Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests. A subsidiary of Loews owns 78.2% of the limited partner interests in us and will continue to own and control our general partner, which controls us. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Loews. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are also directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Loews and its subsidiaries, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · Loews and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. · Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Loews or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Loews and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of Loews shareholders, which may be contrary to our interests. · Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Loews and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. · Some officers of our general partner who provide services to us may devote time to affiliates of our general partner and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates. · Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. · Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. · Our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether an expenditure is for maintenance capital, which reduces operating surplus, or a capital improvement expenditure, which does not. Such determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units. · In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period. · Our general partner determines which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. · Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, and provides that reimbursement to Loews for amounts allocable to us consistent with accounting and allocation methodologies generally permitted by the FERC for rate-making purposes and past business practices is deemed fair and reasonable to us. · Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual obligations. · Our general partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase (1) all of our common units if at any time it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the outstanding common units or (2) all of our equity securities (including common units) if it and its affiliates own more than 50% in the aggregate of the outstanding common units, subordinated units and any other classes of equity securities and it receives an opinion of outside legal counsel to the effect that our being a pass-through entity for tax purposes has or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates we can charge our customers. · Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. · Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 16 Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by a majority of the owners of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples of these kinds of decisions include the exercise of its call rights, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its registration rights and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; · provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership; · generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may limit our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement restricts or limits our ability to: · make certain loans or investments; · make any material change to the nature of our business, including consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions; · enter into a merger, consolidation, sale and leaseback transaction or sale of assets; · make distributions if any default or event of default occurs; · incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; or · grant liens or make certain negative pledges. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. 17 Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash distributions to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to a material amount of entity-level taxation. In addition, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other form of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash distributions to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our tax counsel’s conclusions. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our tax counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our tax counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, because the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, any such contest will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution. 18 Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if such unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not such unitholders receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to such unitholders share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from such unitholders share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, such unitholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and such unitholders’ tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income our unitholders were allocated for a common unit, which decreased such unitholders’ tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to such unitholders if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to our unitholders. In addition, upon a unitholders’ sale of units, such unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash it receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a foreign person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a decrease in the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could decrease the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered terminated for federal income tax purposes, if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in eleven states. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 