Item 1A. Risk Factors. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of a key customer or any significant adverse change in the size or terms of a contract with a key customer could significantly reduce our revenues. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a limited number of significant worldwide wireless carriers for a substantial portion of our revenues. Currently, a number of the top U.S. and International wireless carriers use our services. In the event that one or more of these major wireless carriers decides to reduce or stop using our managed and professional services, we could be forced to shift our marketing focus to smaller wireless carriers, which could result in lower revenues than expected and increased business development, marketing and sales expenses. This could cause our business to be less profitable and our results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, a change in the timing or size of a professional services project by any one of our key customers could result in significant variations in our revenue and operating results. Our operating results for the 15 foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to a small number of customers. Any revenue growth will depend in part on our success in selling additional services to our large customers and expanding our customer base to include additional customers that deploy our solutions in large-scale networks serving significant numbers of subscribers. In 2009, we generated approximately 53% of our total revenue from contracts with AT&T Mobility LLC and its affiliates, or AT&T, and 20% of our total revenue from contracts with Verizon Wireless and its affiliates. In 2010, we generated approximately 44% and 24% of our total revenue from contracts with AT&T and Verizon Wireless, respectively. Certain of our customer agreements expire in 2011, including one of our agreements with AT&T. Failure to renew our agreements with AT&T, Verizon Wireless or our other large customers would materially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview” and “Business—Customers and Vendors—Customers” for more information. The mobile data services industry is, and likely will continue to be, characterized by rapid technological changes, which will require us to develop new service enhancements, and could render our existing services obsolete. The market for content and applications for mobile devices is characterized by rapid technological change, with frequent variations in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to enhance and expand our existing services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of wireless carriers and their subscribers, respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices and license leading technologies that will be useful in our business in a cost-effective and timely way. We may not be able to successfully use new technologies or adapt our current and planned services to new customer requirements or emerging industry standards. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing services obsolete, unmarketable or uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources. The mobile data communications services market is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Our competitors include mobile device manufacturers, search engines, portals and directories, and wireless service integrators. Competition in the wireless industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the market potential of wireless communications products and services. In addition, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, to our detriment. There may be additional competitive threats from companies introducing new and disruptive solutions. Some of our competitors may be better positioned than we are. Although we have attained a significant position in the industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and market presence; • greater name recognition; • access to larger customer bases; • single source solutions that deliver mobile devices, hardware, services and infrastructure; • economies of scale and cost structure advantages; • greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources; and • government support. 16 These competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers or other third parties. In addition, some of our competitors have used and may continue to use aggressive pricing or promotional strategies, have stronger relationships on more favorable terms with wireless carriers and may devote substantially greater resources to system development than we do. These relationships may affect customers’ decisions to purchase services from us. We also face competition from existing service providers in the international markets in which we already compete or may enter. For example, in India we compete with numerous companies, some of which are solely focused on the local mobile data services market, are directly owned and managed by local citizens. These factors could provide local competitors with advantages over us, particularly if the local government enacts laws or policies that favor local competitors or restrict or disadvantage us because our international operations are part of a U.S.-domiciled company. Other competitors in international markets are subsidiaries of larger companies with established local operations, and with greater experience and resources. In other countries that we may enter, there may be incumbent competitors presently selling data services products. These incumbents may have competitive advantages that could impede our expansion and growth in these countries. We rely heavily on our executive officers and other key employees for the success of our business and the loss of our executive team whether to a competitor or otherwise could adversely impact our business. We believe our success will depend in part upon retaining the services of executive officers and other key employees. Many of our executive officers joined our company within the last two years and we operate in a very competitive environment. Although we have employment agreements with many of our key employees, such employees may receive employment offers that are competitive with or more attractive than their existing employment terms with us. If our executive officers or non-executive key employees leave and we cannot replace them with suitable candidates quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly. This could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale and financial results. We currently maintain a key-person life insurance policy on our chief executive officer. Competition for our employees is intense and failure to retain and recruit skilled personnel could negatively affect our financial results as well as our ability to maintain relationships with clients, service existing and new contracts, and drive future growth. We provide sophisticated mobile data delivery platforms and services to our customers. To attract and retain customers and service our existing and new contracts, such as our agreements with Reliance India, Robi, Dialog and Hello, we believe we need to demonstrate professional acumen and build trust and strong relationships, and that we must retain, identify, recruit, and motivate new hardware and software engineers, programmers, technical support personnel and marketing and sales representatives. Competition is intense for skilled personnel with engineering, product development, technical and marketing and sales experience, and we may not be able to retain and/or recruit individuals that possess the necessary skills and experience, or we may not be able to employ these individuals on acceptable terms and conditions, or at all. Moreover, competition has been increasing the cost of hiring and retaining skilled professionals as, among other reasons, other companies in the technology sector may offer more compensation, particularly in the form of equity awards. This trend could adversely affect our operating margins and financial results. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to retain current personnel and hire other skilled personnel. We believe our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the U.S. As a result, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. In addition to the U.S., we currently operate in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Indonesia, Singapore, India, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Cambodia and we intend to expand our offering of mobile data 17 services into a number of additional international markets in the near future. As a result, we are subject to the additional risks of conducting business outside the U.S., which may include: • increased costs associated with localization of our services, including translations into foreign languages and adaptation to local practices and regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties managing and staffing international operations; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions on export or import of technology; • less stringent intellectual property protections; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative, regulatory or tax requirements and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control; • general geopolitical risks in connection with international operations, such as political, social and economic instability; • compliance with anti-corruption and bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; • changes in diplomatic, trade or business relationships; • foreign currency fluctuations that may substantially affect the dollar value of our revenue and costs in foreign markets; • foreign exchange controls that may prevent or limit our ability to repatriate income earned in foreign markets; and • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We expect to make selective domestic and international acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market coverage, and/or enhance our technological capabilities. For instance, on January 31, 2011, we entered in an agreement to acquire Adenyo. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Such transactions or relationships that we enter into may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions and investments outside of the U.S. involve unique risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. These transactions or any other acquisitions or dispositions involve risks and uncertainties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business. In addition, the integration may require that we incur significant restructuring charges. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of the integrations may be further complicated by such factors as geographic distances, lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business, delays and challenges associated with integrating the business with our existing businesses, diversion of management’s attention from daily operations of the business, potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at the acquired business, performance problems with the acquired business’ technology, difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, exposure to unanticipated liabilities of the acquired business, insufficient revenues to 18 offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition, and our ability to achieve the growth prospects and synergies expected from any such acquisition. Even when an acquired business has already developed and marketed products and services, there can be no assurance that product or service enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that all pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such acquired assets. Any acquisition may also cause us to assume liabilities, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges, incur amortization expense related to certain intangible assets, increase our expenses and working capital requirements, and subject us to litigation, which would reduce our return on invested capital. Failure to manage and successfully integrate the acquisitions we make could materially harm our business and operating results. Any future acquisitions may require additional debt or equity financing, which in the case of debt financing, will increase our leverage and, in the case of equity financing, would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Any decline in our perceived credit-worthiness associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. As a result of the foregoing, we also may not be able to complete acquisitions or strategic transactions in the future to the same extent as in the past, or at all. These and other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Open mobile phone operating systems and new business models may reduce the wireless carriers’ influence over access to mobile data services, and may reduce the total size of our market opportunity. The majority of our revenue is based on mobile subscribers accessing mobile content and applications through our customers’ carrier-branded mobile solutions. However, with the growth of the iPhone and smartphone business models, our customers’ services may be bypassed or become inaccessible. These business models, which exclude carrier participation beyond transport, along with the introduction of more mobile phones with open operating systems that allow mobile subscribers to browse the Internet and, in some cases, download applications from sources other than a carrier’s branded services, create a risk that some carriers will choose to allow this non-branded Internet access without offering a competitive value-added carrier-branded experience as part of their solution set. These so-called “open operating systems” include Symbian, BlackBerry, Android, Windows Mobile and webOS. We believe wireless carriers need to offer branded services that can compete head-to-head with the new business models and open technologies in order to retain mobile subscribers and increase ARPU. Although our solutions are designed to help wireless carriers deliver a high value, competitive mobile data experience, if mobile subscribers do not find these carrier-branded services compelling, there is a risk that mobile subscribers will use open operating systems to bypass carrier-branded services and access the mobile Internet. It is also possible one or more wireless carriers will adopt a non-carrier branded, third-party web portal model. To the extent this occurs, the total available market opportunity for providing our current services and solutions to carriers may be reduced. Our sales cycle can be long, which may make our revenues and operating results less predictable. Wireless carriers must typically make substantial investments to deploy our mobile data services solution. As a result, the typical sales cycle for our services is long, averaging nine to twelve months per customer. Many of the potential customers for our services have only recently begun to evaluate the benefits of expanding their offerings of mobile services, and many have only recently designated personnel to evaluate, procure and implement new mobile services. We believe that we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and resources educating potential customers on the use and benefits of our services, and in turn, we expect potential customers to spend a significant amount of time performing internal reviews and obtaining authorization to purchase our services. Furthermore, the emerging and evolving nature of mobile data technological standards and services may lead potential customers to postpone purchasing decisions. 19 We have a history of net operating losses and may continue to suffer losses in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010, we had net losses of approximately $55.2 million, $77.9 million, $78.0 million, $16.3 million and $7.0, respectively. If we cannot become profitable, our financial condition will deteriorate, and we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. We compete with in-house mobile data solutions similar to those we offer. The mobile data service industry is evolving rapidly to address changing industry standards and the introduction of new technologies and network elements. Wireless carriers are constantly reassessing their approaches to delivering mobile data to their subscribers, and one or more of our customers could decide to deploy an in-house mobile data delivery service solution that competes with our services. Even if the mobile data delivery services offered by a mobile service provider’s in-house solution were more limited than those provided by our services, a wireless carrier may elect to accept limited functionality or services in lieu of providing a third party access to its network. An increase in the use of in-house solutions by wireless carriers could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a significant relationship with a development vendor, and changes to that relationship may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We rely upon development vendors to provide additional capacity for our technical development and quality assurance services. Our primary development vendor is GlobalLogic, Inc., a software research and development company providing software development services primarily from its offices in India and Ukraine. Our current agreement with GlobalLogic terminates on December 29, 2011 and includes the option to convert GlobalLogic employees to Motricity employees for a fee. GlobalLogic may only terminate this agreement for cause. If GlobalLogic were, for any reason, to cease operations, we might be unable to replace it on a timely basis with a comparably priced provider. We would also have to expend time and resources to train any new development vendor that might replace GlobalLogic. If GlobalLogic were to suffer an interruption in its business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its software development operations, or if we had to change development vendors, our ability to provide services to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Demand for our managed and professional services depends on increases in carrier subscribers’ use of mobile data services and mobile devices to access the mobile Internet and on our customers’ continued investment and improvement in wireless networks. Our services comprise a mobile data service delivery platform that enables wireless carriers to monitor and charge their subscribers for access to mobile applications, content and programs that are developed by third parties and hosted by us. The majority of our revenue is based on mobile subscribers accessing mobile content and applications through our customers’ carrier-branded mobile solutions. Our ability to generate revenues from our services will depend on the extent to which businesses and consumers continue to adopt and use mobile devices to access the mobile Internet and to receive products and services via their mobile devices. While many consumers use mobile devices to communicate, the majority of consumers do not presently use mobile devices to access the mobile Internet or obtain other products or services. Consumers and businesses may not significantly increase their use of mobile data services and mobile devices to access the mobile Internet and to obtain products and services as quickly as our business model contemplates. If consumers do not continue to increase their use of mobile data services, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely impacted. Further, increased demand by consumers for mobile data services delivered over wireless networks will be necessary to justify capital expenditure commitments by wireless carriers to invest in the improvement and expansion of their networks. Demand for mobile data services might not continue to increase if there is limited availability or market acceptance of mobile devices designed for such services; the multimedia content offered through wireless networks does not attract widespread interest; or the quality of service available through 20 wireless networks does not meet consumer expectations. If long-term expectations for mobile data services are not realized or do not support a sustainable business model, wireless carriers may not commit significant capital expenditures to upgrade their networks to provide these services, the demand for our services will decrease, and we may not be able to increase our revenues or become profitable in the future. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, the value of our technology could be adversely affected. Our business relies upon certain unpatented or unregistered intellectual property rights and proprietary information, including the mCore platform. Consequently, although we take measures to keep our key intellectual property rights and proprietary information confidential, we may not be able to protect our technology from independent invention by third parties. We currently attempt to protect most of our key intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property laws and by entering into employee, contractor and business partner confidentiality agreements. Such measures, however, provide only limited protection, and under certain circumstances we may not be able to prevent the disclosure of our intellectual property, or the unauthorized use or reverse engineering or independent development of our technology. This may allow our existing and potential competitors to develop products and services that are competitive with, or superior to, our services. Further, we intend to expand our international presence by targeting countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. However, many of these countries’ intellectual property laws are not as stringent as those of the U.S. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these countries from using or infringing our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in these regions or otherwise harm our business. In the future, we may also have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, such litigation may not be successful. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may reduce the number of our customers and negatively impact our financial performance. The telecommunications industry continues to experience consolidation and an increased formation of alliances among telecommunications service providers and between telecommunications service providers and other entities. Should one of our significant customers consolidate with another company or enter into such an alliance and decide either to use a different mobile data service provider or to manage its transactions internally, it could have a negative material impact on our prospects. These consolidations and alliances may cause us to lose customers or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced customer leverage, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any decreases in revenue if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline. We expect that our revenue will fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-dollar professional services projects. Because these projects occur at irregular intervals and the dollar values vary based on customer needs, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue. In addition, any significant delays in the deployment of our services, unfavorable sales trends in our existing service categories, or changes in the spending behavior of wireless carriers could adversely affect our revenue growth. If our revenue fluctuates or does not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price would likely decline. Further, much of our revenue is based on managed services, which include a variable component that can fluctuate on a quarterly basis based on subscriber usage. 21 Our customer contracts lack uniformity and often are complex, which subjects us to business and other risks. Our customers include some of the largest wireless carriers which have substantial purchasing power and negotiating leverage. As a result, we typically negotiate contracts on a customer-by-customer basis and sometimes accept contract terms not favorable to us in order to close a transaction, including indemnity, limitation of liability, refund, penalty or other terms that could expose us to significant financial or operating risk. If we are unable to effectively negotiate, enforce and accurately and timely account and bill for contracts with our key customers, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we have contractual indemnification obligations to our customers, most of which are unlimited in nature. If we are required to fulfill our indemnification obligations relating to third-party content or operating systems that we provide to our customers, we intend to seek indemnification from our suppliers, vendors, and content providers to the full extent of their responsibility. Even if the agreement with such supplier, vendor or content provider contains an indemnity provision, it may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or may be limited in amount or scope. As a result, we may or may not have sufficient indemnification from third parties to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made against us. Any significant indemnification obligation to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We provide service level commitments to our customers, which could cause us to incur financial penalties if the stated service levels are not met for a given period and could significantly reduce our revenue. Our customer agreements provide service level commitments on a monthly basis. Our service level commitment varies by customer. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability and/or degraded performance of our service, we may incur financial penalties. Our revenue could be significantly impacted if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our customers. The failure to meet our contractual level of service availability may require us to credit affected customers for a significant portion of their monthly fees, not just the value for the period of the downtime. As a result, failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could result in our incurring significant financial penalties. Service level penalties represented 4% of total revenue in 2008, 1% of total revenue in 2009 and 1% of total revenue in 2010. Any system failure, extended service outages, errors, defects or other performance problems with our managed and professional services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. We use datacenters to deliver our platform and services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. We host our services and serve all of our customers from three datacenter facilities located around the U.S. and one customer-owned facility in Southeast Asia. We operate one datacenter facility located in Washington State. The other two facilities are operated by third parties in Georgia and Massachusetts. We do not control the operations at the third-party facilities. All of these facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks, power losses, telecommunications failures and similar events. They also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the third-party facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Although we maintain off-site tape backups of our customers’ data, we do not currently operate or maintain a backup datacenter for any of our services, which increases our vulnerability to interruptions or delays in our service. Interruptions in our services might harm our reputation, reduce our revenue, cause us to incur financial penalties, subject us to potential liability and cause customers to terminate their contracts other than in the customer-owned facility. 22 Capacity constraints could disrupt access to our services, which could affect our revenue and harm our reputation. Our service goals of performance, reliability and availability require that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the volume of traffic through our mCore service delivery platform. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer our customers and their subscribers enhanced services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business rises, with no assurance that our revenues will grow. If our systems cannot be expanded in a timely manner to cope with increased traffic we could experience disruptions in service, lower customer and subscriber satisfaction and delays in the introduction of new services. Any of these problems could impair our reputation and cause our revenue to decline. Our research and development investments may not lead to successful new services or enhancements. We will continue to invest in research and development for the introduction of new enhancements to existing services designed to improve the capacity, data processing rates and features of our services. We must also continue to develop new features and to improve functionality of our platform based on specific customer requests and anticipated market needs. Research and development in the mobile data services industry, however, is complex, expensive and uncertain. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. If we continue to expend a significant amount of resources on research and development, but our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of service enhancements that are competitive in the marketplace, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. Our solutions are complex and may take longer to develop than anticipated, and we may not recognize revenue from new service enhancements until after we have incurred significant development costs. Most of our services must be tailored to meet customer specifications. In addition, our international customers often require significant customization of our platform to meet local needs. As a result, we often develop new features and enhancements to our existing services. These new features and enhancements often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often do not recognize revenue from new services or enhancements until we have incurred significant development costs. In addition to delayed recognition of revenue from such new services and enhancements, our operating results will suffer if the new services or enhancements fail to meet our customers’ expectations. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions and are rapidly building our international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our ability to use net operating and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments may be limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and may be subject to further limitation as a result of future transactions. Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in the years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders who directly or indirectly own 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards 23 and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company’s stock immediately before the ownership change. As a result, we may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire. In addition, it is possible that future transactions (including issuances of new shares of our common stock and sales of shares of our common stock) will cause us to undergo one or more additional ownership changes. In that event, we generally would not be able to use our pre-change loss or certain built-in losses prior to such ownership change to offset future taxable income in excess of the annual limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 and those attributes already subject to limitations (as a result of our prior ownership changes) may be subject to more stringent limitations. Our ability to sell our services is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our customers depend on our support organization to resolve issues relating to our mCore service delivery platform. We believe that a high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our services and future enhancements to mCore. Failure to effectively assist our customers in deploying their primary mobile data services, quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and otherwise provide effective ongoing support would adversely affect our ability to sell our services to existing customers and could harm our reputation among potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on the development of content and applications by third parties, and if wireless carriers and their subscribers do not find such content compelling, our sales could decline. Our business is dependent on the availability of content and applications for mobile devices that wireless carriers and their subscribers find useful and compelling. A significant percentage of our revenue is derived from the sale of applications and content through marketplaces and portals we operate for our wireless carrier customers. We also believe that demand for our services will increase as the number of applications and the volume of mobile content increases because our services facilitate the navigation and organization of large numbers of applications and large amounts of content. We do not develop applications or content; rather, we facilitate the sale and consumption of applications and content developed by third parties through our wireless carrier customers. If third-party developers fail to create content and applications that wireless carriers and their subscribers find useful and compelling, our sales would decline, and that would have a significant adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our solutions may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our solutions are highly technical and have contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our solutions may only be discovered after a solution has been deployed and used by our wireless carrier customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our solutions after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention away from the business and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our services. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 24 If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business could be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth. Our revenue from continuing operations grew from $21.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 to $133.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. To manage growth effectively, we must continue to improve and enhance our managerial, operational and financial controls, and train and manage our employees, and expand our employee base. We must also manage new and existing relationships with customers, suppliers, business partners and other third parties. These activities will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to maintain the efficiency of our organization as we grow, our profit margins may decrease, and we may be unable to achieve our business objectives. In recent years, we have recognized significant impairment losses related to our goodwill, intangible assets and property and equipment. Additional impairment losses may be recognized which would adversely affect our financial results. We are required under GAAP to test goodwill for impairment annually and to assess our amortizable intangible assets, including capitalized software costs, and long-lived assets, as well as goodwill, for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In 2010, we did not incur any such impairment losses, but in 2009 and 2008, impairment losses totaled $5.8 million and $29.1 million, respectively. Factors which have led to impairments in the past include changes in business strategy, restructuring of the business in connection with acquisitions, actual performance of acquired businesses below our expectations and expiration of customer contracts. Unanticipated events or changes in circumstances could impact our ability to recover the carrying value of some or all of these assets. In addition, we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future which would increase the amount of such assets on our books that would be subject to potential future impairment. In the event any of our current or future assets became impaired, the associated impairment charge could adversely impact our results of operations. Our business involves the use, transmission and storage of confidential information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages. Our business activities involve the use, transmission and storage of confidential information. We believe that we take commercially reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required, under existing and proposed laws, to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. The unauthorized disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships and/or a reduction in customer confidence and usage of our services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to liability for our use or distribution of information that we receive from third parties. As part of our business, we obtain content and commercial information from third parties. When we distribute this information, we may be liable for the data contained in that information. There is a risk that we may be subject to claims related to the distribution of such content such as defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy or publicity rights and product or service liability, among others. Laws or regulations of certain jurisdictions may also deem some content illegal, which may expose us to additional legal liability. We also gather personal information from subscribers in order to provide personalized services. Gathering and processing this personal information may subject us to legal liability for, among other things, defamation, negligence, invasion of privacy and product or service liability. We are also subject to laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and abroad, regarding the collection and use of subscriber information. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be exposed to legal liability. 25 Some of the agreements by which we obtain content do not contain indemnity provisions in our favor. Even if a given contract does contain indemnity provisions, they may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or the party granting indemnity may not have the financial resources to cover the claim. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made. Any liability that we incur as a result of content we receive from third parties could adversely impact our results of operations. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in mobile devices could negatively affect our business. The security of mobile devices and wireless networks is critical to our business. Individuals or groups may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack mobile devices and wireless networks. Security experts have identified computer worms targeted specifically at mobile devices. Security threats could lead some mobile subscribers to reduce or delay their purchases of mobile content and applications in an attempt to reduce the security threat posed by viruses, worms and other malicious software. Wireless carriers and device manufacturers may also spend more on protecting their wireless networks and mobile devices from attack, which could delay adoption of new mobile devices that tend to include more features and functionalities that facilitate increased use of mobile data services. Actual or perceived security threats, and reactions to such threats, could reduce our revenue or require unplanned expenditures on new security initiatives. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate the deficiencies in our internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We are in the process of documenting and reviewing our internal controls and procedures. Beginning with fiscal year 2011, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing this assessment. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur additional expense and expend management time on compliance-related issues. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market’s confidence in our financial statements could decline and the market price of our common stock could be adversely impacted. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could force us to incur significant costs. We cannot be certain that our services do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Many parties in the telecommunications and software industries have begun to apply for and obtain patent protection for innovative proprietary technologies and business methods. Given that our platform interacts with various participants in the mobile data ecosystem, existing or future patents protecting certain proprietary technology and business methods may preclude us from using such proprietary technology or business methods, or may require us to pay damages for infringement or fees to obtain a license to use the proprietary technology or business methods (which may not be available or, if available, may be on terms that are unacceptable), or both, which would increase our cost of doing business. In addition, litigation concerning intellectual property rights and the infringement of those rights, including patents, trademarks and copyrights, has grown significantly over the last several years and is likely to grow further in the future. If we become the subject of infringement claims, we may be forced into litigation, which will require us to devote significant resources and management time and attention to defend against such infringement claims. If it is determined that our services infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we may be required to pay damages or enjoined from using that technology or forced to obtain a license (which may not be available or, if available, may be on terms that are unacceptable) and/or pay royalties to continue using that technology. The assertion of intellectual property infringement claims against our technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 26 Government regulation of the mobile industry is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our business and operating results. As the mobile industry continues to evolve, we believe greater regulation by federal, state or foreign governments or regulatory authorities becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information, could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing our ability to utilize this information for the purpose of continued improvement of the overall mobile subscriber experience. In addition, any regulation of the requirement to treat all content and application provider services the same over the mobile Internet, sometimes referred to as net neutrality regulation, could reduce our customers’ ability to make full use of the value of our services. Further, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations to access the Internet may be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the mobile Internet and the viability of mobile data service providers, which could harm our business and operating results. Finally, any further or more restrictive regulation of the ability of wireless carriers to include charges for goods and services in a mobile subscriber’s bill or their ability to offer up these capabilities to third parties, such as ourselves, on a bill-on-behalf-of basis could negatively impact our business. Our use of open source software could limit our ability to commercialize our services. We have incorporated open source software into our services. Although we closely monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our services. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our services, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue sales of our services, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our services could reduce our ability to compete successfully. In the future, we may require additional amounts of capital to execute our business plan. We may require capital to complete planned upgrades and enhancements to our products and services, increase our investment in capital equipment to support new and existing customers, extend our marketing and sales efforts, expand internationally and make strategic acquisitions if attractive opportunities become available. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the time and cost of our service enhancements, the rate of mobile data subscriber growth, the acceptance rate of mobile devices as multi-functional computing platforms, the demand for wireless applications, the time and cost of successfully entering into new customer contracts and the amount of investment needed to achieve our sales and marketing objectives. Based on our current cash balances and projected revenues, we estimate that we will have sufficient capital to execute our near term business plans and maintain positive cash flow. However, this may not be the case. Further, we may not have sufficient capital to take advantage of opportunities for strategic acquisitions of significant complementary or competitive businesses that could enhance our business and operating results. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that further restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. We may not be able to raise any additional capital that we may require on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed, we may not be able to pursue some elements of our current strategy and business plan, and we may not be able to achieve our financial objectives. 27 The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause wide fluctuations in the stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in our financial condition and operating results; • overall conditions or trends in our industry; • addition or loss of significant customers; • competition from existing or new products; • changes in the market valuations of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures or capital commitments; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities or industry analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders, including sales by our directors and officers. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, whether or not we are successful in such litigation. Our principal stockholders may exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to your interests. Because a limited number of persons may exert substantial influence over us, transactions could be difficult or impossible to complete without the support of those persons. It is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to your interests. In our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we renounce and provide for a waiver of the corporate opportunity doctrine as it relates to the funds affiliated with Technology Crossover Ventures, Koala Holding LP and any person or entity affiliated with these investors, we refer to all such persons as exempted persons. As a result, these exempted persons will have no fiduciary duty to present corporate opportunities to us. These exempted persons are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. They may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as these exempted persons continue to own a significant amount of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, 28 including director and officer appointments, potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are directed by the exempted persons to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. For more information regarding ownership of our outstanding stock by our principal stockholders see Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future performance. In light of our acquisition of the mobile division of InfoSpace on December 28, 2007, our operating results only reflect the impact of the acquisition from that date, and therefore comparisons with prior periods are difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance as owners of the mobile division of InfoSpace may make it difficult for stockholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability. Furthermore, our brief operating history has resulted in revenue and profitability growth rates that may not be indicative of our future results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, we exited two lines of business in 2007 and 2008, our direct to consumer business, which was sold in two transactions in 2007 and 2008, and a business we refer to as media and entertainment, which was discontinued in 2008. The loss from discontinued operations in the 2008 period includes losses from these discontinued businesses. As a result of the foregoing factors, our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected in the future. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these reports or analysts. If any of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock, or if our operating results do not meet the analysts’ expectations, our stock price could decline. Moreover, if any of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish regular reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, as a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock and currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings in the foreseeable future will be used in the operation and growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is currently limited by the covenants of our credit facility and may be further restricted by the terms of any future debt or preferred securities. Accordingly, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company may be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. The market price for our common stock may never exceed, and may fall below, the price that you pay for such common stock. 29 Congress has enacted new legislation that affects the taxation of common stock held by or through foreign entities. Recently enacted legislation generally will impose a withholding tax of 30% on dividend income from our common stock and the gross proceeds of a disposition of our common stock paid to certain foreign entities after December 31, 2012, unless the foreign entity complies with certain conditions or an exception applies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 