ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements contained in this Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, such as statements regarding our future financial condition or results of operations, our prospects and strategies for future growth, the development and introduction of new products, and the implementation of our marketing and branding strategies. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “intends,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in Form 10-K reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that may cause events or our actual activities or results to differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future events, results, actions, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, those factors described below under “Risk Factors” and in “ Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk .” These factors include, without limitation: • our ability to manage our growth effectively; • our ability to maintain effective internal controls; • increased competition causing us to reduce the prices of our products or to increase significantly our marketing efforts in order to avoid losing market share; • changes in consumer preferences or the reduction in demand for performance apparel and other products; 9 • our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand for our products; • reduced demand for sporting goods and apparel generally; • failure of our suppliers or manufacturers to produce or deliver our products in a timely or cost-effective manner; • our ability to accurately anticipate and respond to seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • our ability to effectively market and maintain a positive brand image; • the availability and effective operation of management information systems and other technology; • our ability to attract and maintain the services of our senior management and key employees; and • changes in general economic or market conditions, including as a result of political or military unrest or terrorist attacks. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors detailed below in conjunction with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. If we continue to grow at a rapid pace, we may not be able to manage that growth effectively and our brand image, net revenues and profitability may decline. We have expanded our operations rapidly since our inception and our net revenues have increased to $281.1 million in 2005 from $19.7 million in 2001. Our substantial growth has placed a significant strain on our management systems and resources. If our operations continue to grow, we will be required to continue to expand our sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions and to upgrade our management information systems and other processes and technology as well as obtain more space to support our expanding workforce. This expansion could increase the strain on these and other resources, and we could experience serious operating difficulties, including difficulties in hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees, difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and manufacturing capacity to produce our products, and delays in production and shipments. These difficulties would likely result in the erosion of our brand image and a resulting decrease in net revenues, net income and the price of our Class A Common Stock. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We completed our initial public offering in 2005. We are spending a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. Our management team has limited experience operating a public reporting company. As a result, we will likely need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Section 404 of SOX requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. We are required by Section 404 to be compliant by December 31, 2006. We believe adequate resources and expertise, both internal and external have been put in place to meet this 10 requirement. We intend to work closely with our independent registered public accounting firm during this process. Though we have taken efforts to become SOX compliant by the end of 2006, there is no guarantee that it will result in management assurance or an attestation by the independent auditors that internal controls over financial reporting are adequate. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our controls over financial reporting are not effective as required by Section 404 of SOX, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and, among other things, this could cause a decline in the price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, our overhead may increase and our net income may decline as a percentage of net revenues as a result of the additional costs associated with complying with the complex legal regime associated with being a public reporting company. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. Our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. These factors may cause us to reduce our prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. If our gross margin declines and we fail to sufficiently reduce our cost of goods sold or grow our net revenues, our profitability will decline, and we could incur operating losses that we may be unable to fund or sustain for extended periods of time, if at all. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition and could result in a decline in the price of our Class A Common Stock. A decline in sales to, or the loss of, one or more of our key customers could result in a material loss of revenues and negatively impact our prospects for growth. In 2005, approximately 36% of our net revenues were generated from sales to our two largest customers, Dick’s Sporting Goods and The Sports Authority. The percentage of our net revenues attributable to these customers has increased in recent years as these customers opened new store locations and devoted an increased portion of their floor space to our products. We expect this trend to continue in 2006. However, we do not enter into long-term sales contracts with these or our other key customers, relying instead on our relationships with these customers and on our position in the marketplace. As a result, we face the risk that one or more of these key customers may not increase their business with us as we expect, or may significantly decrease their business with us or terminate their relationship with us. The failure to increase our sales to these customers as we anticipate would have a negative impact on our growth prospects and any decrease or loss of these key customers’ business could result in a material decrease in our net revenues and net income. Sales of performance products may not continue to grow and this could adversely impact our ability to grow our business. We believe that continued growth in industry-wide sales of performance products will be largely dependent on consumers continuing to transition from traditional alternatives, such as basic cotton T-shirts, to performance products. If consumers are not convinced that performance products are a better choice than traditional alternatives, growth in the industry and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because performance products are often more expensive than traditional alternatives, consumers who are convinced that performance products provide a better alternative may still not be convinced that they are worth the extra cost. If industry-wide sales of performance products do not grow, our ability to continue to grow our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our net revenues and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. Our new products may not receive consumer 11 acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. There can be no assurance that we will respond to changing preferences in a timely manner. Failure to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, lower sales and excess inventory levels. Even if we are successful in anticipating consumer preferences, our ability to adequately react to and address those preferences will in part depend upon our continued ability to develop and introduce innovative products, and there can be no assurance of our ability to do so. In addition, there can be no assurance that our strategy of continuing to expand the range of performance products that we offer into new product categories will be well received by consumers or will not dilute our brand image and result in a shift of consumer preferences away from our product lines. The failure to effectively introduce new products and enter into new product categories that are accepted by consumers could result in a decrease in net revenues and excess inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and result in a decline in the price of our Class A Common Stock. If the financial condition of our retail customers declines, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. We face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. A slowing economy in our key markets or a continued decline in consumer purchases of sporting goods generally could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our retail customers, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables, our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility and our financial condition. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. We rely on our distribution facility in Glen Burnie, Maryland, which became fully operational in July 2004, for substantially all of our product distribution. Our distribution facility includes computer controlled and automated equipment, which means the operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. In addition, because substantially all of our products are distributed from one location, our operations could also be interrupted by floods, fires or other natural disasters near our distribution facility. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facility, such as the long-term loss of customers or an erosion of our brand image. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the shipping of product to and from our distribution facility. If we encounter problems with our distribution facility, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to provide fabrics for and to produce our products, and we have limited control over these suppliers and manufacturers and may not be able to obtain quality products on a timely basis or in sufficient quantity. Many of the specialty fabrics used in our products are technically advanced textile products developed by third parties and may be available, in the short-term, from a very limited number of sources. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers, and, in 2005, three manufacturers produced over 35% of our products. We have no long-term contracts with our suppliers or manufacturing sources, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, production and import quota capacity. There can be no assurance that there will not be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, that we would be able to locate alternative 12 suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. If we experience significant increased demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products and quality control standards. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short and long term. In addition, there can be no assurance that our suppliers and manufacturers will continue to provide fabrics and raw materials and to manufacture products that are consistent with our standards. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of product that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In that event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk the loss of revenues resulting from the inability to sell those products and related increased administrative and shipping costs. In addition, because we do not control our manufacturers, products that fail to meet our standards or other unauthorized products could end up in the marketplace without our knowledge, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace. The cost of raw materials could affect our operating results. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers are synthetic fabrics and involve raw materials, including petroleum-based products. Significant price fluctuations or shortages in petroleum or other raw materials may materially adversely affect our cost of goods sold, results of operations and financial condition, and cause a decline in the price of our Class A Common Stock. Sponsorships and designations as an official supplier may become more expensive and this could impact the value of our brand image. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to create a link in the consumer market between our products and professional and collegiate athletes. We previously gained significant publicity and brand name recognition from the perceived sponsorships associated with professional and collegiate athletes and sports programs using our products. The use of our products by athletes and teams was frequently without our paying compensation or in exchange for our furnishing product at a reduced cost or without charge and without formal arrangements. We also have licensing agreements to be the official supplier of performance apparel to a variety of sports leagues and Olympic teams. However, as competition in the performance apparel industry has increased, the costs associated with athlete sponsorships and official supplier licensing agreements have risen dramatically, including the costs associated with obtaining and retaining these sponsorships and agreements. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain existing or attract new athletes or sports programs to wear or endorse our products or retain official supplier agreements at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are unable to maintain our current association with professional and collegiate athletes, teams and leagues, we could lose the on-field authenticity associated with our products and may be required to modify and substantially increase the cost of our marketing plan. As a result, our brand image, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our revenues and gross profit. The market for active sports apparel is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and marketing of performance 13 products. Because we currently own no fabric or process patents or copyrights, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics and fabrications similar to our products. Many of our competitors are large apparel and sporting goods companies with strong worldwide brand recognition, such as Nike and Adidas that have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in outdoor and tactical apparel and private label offerings of certain retailers, including some of our retail customers. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including longer operating histories, larger sales forces, bigger advertising budgets, better brand recognition among consumers, greater economies of scale and long-term relationships with our key retail customers that are potentially more important to those customers because of the significantly larger volume and product mix that our competitors sell to them. As a result, these competitors may be better equipped than we are to influence consumer preferences or otherwise increase their market share by: • quickly adapting to changes in customer requirements; • readily taking advantage of acquisition and other opportunities; • discounting excess inventory that has been written down or written off; • devoting resources to the marketing and sale of their products, including significant advertising, media placement and product endorsement; • adopting aggressive pricing policies; and • engaging in lengthy and costly intellectual property and other disputes. In addition, while a component of one of our key growth strategies is to increase floor space for our products in retail stores, retailers have limited resources and floor space and we must compete with others to develop relationships with them. Increased competition by existing and future competitors could result in reductions in floor space in retail locations, reductions in sales or reductions in the prices of our products, and if retailers earn greater margins from our competitors’ products, they may favor the display and sale of those products. Our inability to compete successfully against our competitors and maintain our gross profit margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. To minimize purchasing costs and ensure supply, we generally place orders with our manufacturers at least 90-120 days prior to the time we need to deliver our products. However, we generally do not receive firm customer orders prior to 30 days before the date those orders are to be shipped. In addition, a significant portion of our net revenues are generated by at-once orders for immediate delivery to customers, particularly during our peak season from August through November. Because we place orders for products with our manufacturers before our customers’ orders are firm and because we receive a significant volume of at-once orders, if we fail to accurately forecast customer demand we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our customers. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: • an increase or decrease in consumer demand for our products or for products of our competitors; • our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance for our new products; • new product introductions by competitors; • unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers; 14 • weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items, such as our products; and • terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would have an adverse effect on gross margin. In addition, if we underestimate the demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet our customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of our products and our ability to recognize revenue, as well as damage to our reputation and customer relationships. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory demand in order to meet future order and reorder requirements. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products is likely to result in an unexpected adverse effect on our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenues and net income, which could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenues and net income. These variations are primarily related to increased sales of our products during the fall season, reflecting our historical strength in fall sports, and the seasonality of sales of our higher priced ColdGear line. Approximately 62% and 66% of our net revenues were generated during the last two quarters of 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things, the timing of the introduction of and advertising for new products and changes in our product mix. Variations in weather conditions may also have an adverse effect on our quarterly results of operations. For example, warmer than normal weather conditions throughout the fall or winter may reduce sales of our ColdGear line, leaving us with excess inventory and operating results below our expectations. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our Class A Common Stock to fluctuate significantly. Labor disruptions at ports or our suppliers or manufacturers may adversely affect our business. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide and on a consistent basis from our suppliers and manufacturers. Labor disputes at various ports, such as those experienced at western U.S. ports in 2002, or at our suppliers or manufacturers, create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing or manufacturing seasons, and could have an adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced net revenues and net income. The value of our brand, and sales of our products, could be diminished if we are associated with negative publicity. We require that our suppliers, independent manufacturers and licensees of our products operate their businesses in compliance with the laws and regulations that apply to them as well as the social and other 15 standards and policies we impose on them. We do not control these suppliers, manufacturers or licensees or their labor practices. A violation of our policies, labor laws or other laws by our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could interrupt or otherwise disrupt our sourcing or damage our brand image. Negative publicity regarding the production methods of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our reputation and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturing sources or licensees. In addition, we have sponsorship contracts with a variety of athletes and feature those athletes in our advertising and marketing efforts and many athletes and teams use our products, including those teams or leagues for which we are an official supplier. Actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues could also harm our brand image and result in a material decrease in our net revenues and net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity and the price of our Class A Common Stock. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on our enterprise resource system and our warehouse management system, both of which were purchased from third parties and implemented in 2002. Since then, we have updated and supplemented these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, including difficulties with the operation or implementation of our new enterprise resource system software that is scheduled to become operational during 2006, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and it could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. We cannot assure you that such events will not occur. Our international operations and the operations of many of our manufacturers are subject to additional risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our business. In 2005, our products were manufactured by 18 primary manufacturers, operating in 19 countries. In 2005, approximately 50% of our products were manufactured in Central and South America, with 43% in Asia and 7% manufactured in the United States. In addition, approximately 5% of our 2005 net revenues were generated through international sales and licensing fees. As a result of our international manufacturing and sales, we are subject to risks associated with doing business abroad, including: • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries in which our products are manufactured; • currency exchange fluctuations; • the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, duties, taxes and other charges on imports, as well as trade restrictions and restrictions on the transfer of funds; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • understanding foreign consumer tastes and preferences that may differ from those in the United States; • complying with foreign laws and regulations that differ from country to country; • disruptions or delays in shipments; and • changes in local economic conditions in countries where our manufacturers, suppliers or customers are located. 16 These and other factors beyond our control could interrupt our manufacturers’ production in offshore facilities, influence the ability of our manufacturers to export our products cost-effectively or at all, inhibit our and our unaffiliated manufacturers’ ability to procure certain materials, increase our legal or compliance costs and influence our ability to sell our products in international markets, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Risks Related to Our Management Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees, particularly Kevin A. Plank, our founder and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. We also may be unable to retain existing management, technical, sales and client support personnel that are critical to our success, which could result in harm to key customer relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. If we are unable to attract and retain new team members, including senior management, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. Our growth has largely been the result of significant contributions by our current senior management and product design teams. However, to be successful in continuing to grow our business, we will need to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly talented employees with a range of skills and experience. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and we may experience similar difficulties in the future. With new additions to our senior management we may develop and implement changes in our product development, merchandising, marketing and operational strategies. There can be no assurance that we would successfully assimilate new senior management and make strategic modifications to our past operating policies in a timely and efficient manner, and if we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain additional senior management with the necessary skills, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business. Risks Related to Proprietary Rights Our fabrics and manufacturing technology are not patented or copyrighted and can be imitated by our competitors. The intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics and processes used to manufacture our products are owned or controlled by our suppliers, except as noted below, and are generally not unique to us. As a result, our ability to obtain patent protection for our products is limited and we currently own no fabric or process patents or copyrights, except for a pending patent application for performance sports garments formed from single-layer, double-faced performance warp knit fabric that includes Kevin Plank as a co-inventor. As a result, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics and fabrications similar to our products. Because many of our competitors, such as Nike, Adidas and Reebok, have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do, they may be able to manufacture and sell products based on our fabrics and manufacturing technology at lower prices than we can. If our competitors do sell similar products to ours at lower prices, our net revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. 17 Our trademark and other proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling some of our products. Our success depends in large part on our brand image. We believe that our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and are important to identifying and differentiating our products from those of our competitors and creating and sustaining demand for our products. We cannot assure you that obstacles will not arise as we expand our product line and the geographic scope of our marketing. From time to time, we have received claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business and the number of products we offer. Any claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights belonging to third parties or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand, weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenues. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade dress laws, patent laws, unfair competition laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others, including imitation of our products and misappropriation of our brand. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. From time to time, we discover unauthorized products in the marketplace that are either counterfeit reproductions of our products or unauthorized irregulars that do not meet our quality control standards. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party’s products on the basis of trademark infringement, continued sales of their products could adversely impact our brand, result in the shift of consumer preferences away from our products and adversely affect our business. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 