D. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline, which may result in a loss of all or part of your investment . We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. You should carefully consider the following factors as well as the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this annual report before taking any investment decision with respect to our securities. See “Forward Looking Statements” on page iv above. 3 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Failure to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships with insurance companies could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. Revenues from our stolen vehicle recovery services, which we refer to as SVR services, and automatic vehicle location products, which we refer to as AVL products, are primarily dependent on our relationships with insurance companies. In Israel, insurance companies drive demand for our SVR services and AVL products by encouraging and, in some cases, requiring customers to subscribe to vehicle location services and purchase vehicle location products such as ours. In Brazil and Argentina, insurance companies, such as Porto Seguro in Brazil and La Caja in Argentina, enter into written agreements to subscribe to our services and purchase or lease our products directly. Our inability to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships with insurance companies could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. Changes in practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide our SVR services and sell our AVL products could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. We depend on the practices of insurance companies in the markets in which we provide our SVR services and sell our AVL products. In Israel, insurance companies either mandate the use of SVR services and AVL products, or their equivalent, as a prerequisite for providing insurance coverage to owners of certain medium- and high-end vehicles, or provide insurance premium discounts to encourage vehicle owners to subscribe to services and purchase products such as ours. In Brazil and Argentina, insurance companies purchase or lease our AVL products directly and subsequently require their customers to subscribe to our SVR services. Therefore, we rely on insurance companies’ continued practice of: n accepting vehicle location and recovery technology as a preferred security product; n requiring or providing a premium discount for using location and recovery services and products; n mandating or encouraging use of our SVR services and AVL products, or similar services and products, for vehicles with the same or similar threshold values and for the same or similar required duration of use; and n with respect to insurance companies in Brazil and Argentina, deciding to purchase or lease SVR services and AVL products from us directly. If any of these policies or practices change, revenues from sales of our SVR services and AVL products could decline, which could adversely affect our revenues and growth potential. A reduction in vehicle theft rates may adversely impact demand for our SVR services and AVL products. Demand for our SVR services and AVL products depends primarily on prevailing or expected vehicle theft rates. Vehicle theft rates may decline as a result of various reasons, such as the availability of improved security systems, implementation of improved or more effective law enforcement measures, or improved economic or political conditions in markets that have high theft rates. If vehicle theft rates in any or all of our existing markets decline or stabilize, or if insurance companies or our other customers believe that vehicle theft rates have declined or stabilized or are expected to decline or stabilize, demand for our SVR services and AVL products may decline. 4 A decline in sales of new medium- and high-end cars and commercial vehicles in the markets in which we operate could result in reduced demand for our SVR services and AVL products. Our SVR services and AVL products are primarily used to protect medium- and high-end cars and commercial vehicles and are often installed before or immediately after their initial sale. Consequently, a reduction in sales of new medium- and high-end vehicles could reduce our addressable market for SVR services and AVL products. New vehicle sales may decline for various reasons, including an increase in new vehicle tariffs, taxes or gas prices. A decline in vehicle production levels or labor disputes affecting the automobile industry in the markets where we operate may also impact the volume of new vehicle sales. A decline in sales of new medium- and high-end vehicles in the markets in which we provide our SVR services or sell our AVL products could result in reduced demand for such services and products. In the event that we are not successful in penetrating the Chinese and South Korean markets, as a result of contractual or governmental constraints, or if our relevant counterparties are not able or willing to effectively market location-based services in China or South Korea, we will not be able to implement a substantial portion of our current growth strategy. In 2004 we entered into material agreements for the sale of our AVL infrastructure and end-units in China and South Korea. See Item 10.C – “Additional Information” under the caption “Material Contracts” below. Our current growth strategy depends, in large part, on our ability to maximize our opportunities pursuant to such agreements. Performance under such agreements is subject to various contractual and governmental constraints, including the receipt of various licenses and permits required for the establishment of our AVL infrastructure and specialized approvals, such as the Telecommunication Equipment Network Access Type Approval in China and the Business License and Spectrum License in South Korea, some of which are difficult to obtain or require a substantial time investment. In addition, our ability to sell our products in the relevant markets is dependent upon the local operators’ ability to effectively provide location-based services based on our AVL infrastructure or market our end-units in China and South Korea. Their failure to provide any such services or market our products effectively, or such operators’ failure to obtain any necessary governmental licenses, would preclude us from being able to optimize our growth in China and South Korea. There is significant competition in the markets in which we offer our services and products and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete successfully. The markets for our services and products are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of the technological innovation, quality and price of our services and products. Our most competitive market is the location-based services market and the related AVL products market, due to the existence of a wide variety of competing services and products and alternative technologies that offer various levels of protection and tracking capabilities, including global positioning systems, or GPS, satellite- or network-based cellular systems and direction-finding homing technologies. Some of these competing services and products, such as certain GPS-based products, are installed in new cars by vehicle manufacturers prior to their initial sale, which effectively precludes us from competing for such subscribers. Furthermore, providers of competing services or products may extend their offerings to the locations in which we operate or new competitors may enter the location-based services market. Our AVL products also compete with less sophisticated theft protection devices such as standard car alarms, immobilizers, steering wheel locks and homing devices, some of which may be significantly cheaper. Some of these competing products have greater brand recognition than our AVL products, including LoJack Corporation in the United States. 5 Over 90% of the automatic meter reading market, which we refer to as the AMR market, exists in the United States, where we compete with a number of established companies with greater financial resources. The radio frequency identification market, which we refer to as the RFID market, in the United States is characterized by a small number of established and accepted providers, including Mark IV, the provider of the E-ZPass solution, many of which have greater experience and name recognition in this market than we do. Many of our current and potential competitors in all of the markets in which we operate have significantly greater name recognition, larger customer base and greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. If our competitors succeed in marketing products more effectively than we do, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The development of new or improved competitive products, systems or technologies that compete with our wireless communications products may render our products less competitive or obsolete, which could cause a decline in our revenues and profitability. We are engaged in businesses characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product developments and enhancements. The number of companies developing and marketing new wireless communications products has expanded considerably in recent years. The development of new or improved products, systems or technologies that compete with our wireless communications products may render our products less competitive and we may not be able to enhance our technology in a timely manner. In addition to the competition resulting from new products, systems or technologies, our future product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. Any of the foregoing could cause a decline in our revenues and profitability. The inability of local law enforcement agencies to timely and effectively recover the stolen vehicles we locate could negatively impact customers’ perception of the usefulness of our SVR services and AVL products, adversely affecting our revenues. Our AVL products identify the location of vehicles in which our products are installed. Following a notification of an unauthorized entry, or if we receive notification of the vehicle’s theft from a subscriber, we notify the relevant law enforcement agency of the location of the subscriber’s vehicle and generally rely on local law enforcement or governmental agencies to recover the stolen vehicle. We cannot control nor predict the response time of the relevant local law enforcement or other governmental agencies responsible for recovering stolen vehicles, nor that the stolen vehicles, once located, will be recovered at all. Over the past three years, some stolen vehicles in which our AVL products were installed were not recovered and the average stolen vehicle recovery time in the markets in which we operate was 20 minutes from the time an unauthorized entry is confirmed or reported to the time the vehicle is recovered. Over the past three years, the average response time of the relevant law enforcement agencies in the markets in which we provide SVR services was approximately 20 minutes. To the extent that the relevant agencies do not effectively and timely respond to our calls and recover stolen vehicles, our recovery rates would likely diminish, which may, in turn, negatively impact customers’ perception of the usefulness of our SVR services and AVL products, adversely affecting our revenues. 6 The ability to detect, deactivate, disable or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of our AVL products could adversely affect demand for such products and our revenues. The effectiveness of our AVL products is dependent, in part, on the inability of unauthorized persons to deactivate or otherwise alter the functioning of our AVL products or the vehicle anti-theft devices that work in conjunction with our AVL products. As sales of our AVL products increase, criminals in the markets in which we operate may become increasingly aware of our AVL products and may develop methods or technologies to detect, deactivate or disable our tracking devices or the vehicle anti-theft devices that work in conjunction with our AVL products. We believe that, as is the case with any product intended to prevent vehicle theft, over time, there may be an increased ability of unauthorized persons to detect, deactivate, disable or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of our AVL products, although it is difficult to verify this fact. An increase in the ability of unauthorized persons to detect, deactivate, disable or otherwise inhibit the effectiveness of our AVL products could adversely affect demand for our products and our revenues. We rely on some intellectual property that we license from a third party, the loss of which could preclude us from providing our SVR services or market and sell some of our AVL products, which would adversely affect our revenues. We license from Teletrac, Inc. some of the technology that we need in order to provide our SVR services and market and sell some of our AVL products. In the event that such licenses were to be terminated, or if such licenses were rendered unenforceable or invalid, we would not be able to license similar technology from other parties, which would require us, at a minimum, to obtain rights to a different technology and reconfigure our AVL products accordingly. Our license agreements with Teletrac are perpetual in term unless terminated by mutual agreement or for breach, including bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency. As a result, our failure to maintain our intellectual property licenses from Teletrac could preclude us from providing our SVR services or market and sell some of our AVL products, which would adversely affect our revenues. We depend on proprietary technology and our failure to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or our need to defend against infringement claims could result in a significant increase in costs and decline in revenues. Our business is dependent on the uninterrupted use of proprietary technology, both owned and licensed, from third parties. If we fail to protect, enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, know-how, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Even with the intellectual property protection currently in place, we may not be able to protect our technology from misappropriation or infringement and we may lose, or the relevant owners may restrict or lose, our current rights of use of the technology that we license from such owners. Any of our existing intellectual property rights may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or rendered unenforceable. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we operate or plan to operate, may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Israel or the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. It may be necessary for us to litigate in order to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, which litigation can be time consuming, distracting to management, expensive and difficult to predict. 7 It is possible that we have or will inadvertently violate the intellectual property rights of other parties and those other parties may choose to assert infringement claims against us. If a court were to determine that our technology infringes on third parties’ intellectual property, in addition to exposure to substantial damages, we could be required to expend considerable resources to modify our products, to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to permit our continued use of the technology that is the subject matter of the litigation. Our failure to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, or our need to defend against claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of others or the loss of any such claims, could result in a significant increase in costs and decline in revenues. Our ability to sell our services and products depends upon the prior receipt and maintenance of various governmental licenses and approvals and our failure to obtain or maintain such licenses and approvals, or third-party use of the same licenses and frequencies, could result in a disruption or curtailment of our operations, a significant increase in costs and a decline in revenues. We are required to obtain specific licenses and approvals from various governmental authorities in order to conduct our operations. For example, our AVL products use radio frequencies that are licensed and renewed periodically from the Ministry of Communications in Israel and similar agencies worldwide. As we continue to expand into additional markets, we will be required to obtain new permits and approvals from relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, once our AVL infrastructure is deployed and our AVL end-units are sold to subscribers, a change in radio frequencies would require us to recalibrate all of our antennas and replace or modify all end-units held by subscribers, which would be costly and may result in delays in the provision of our SVR services. In addition, some of the governmental licenses for radio frequencies that we currently use may be preempted by third parties. In Israel, our license is designated as a “joint” license, allowing the government to grant third parties a license to use the same frequencies, and in Brazil our license is designated as a “secondary” license, which allows the government to grant a third party a primary license to use such frequencies, which third-party use could adversely affect, disrupt or curtail our operations. Our inability to maintain necessary governmental licenses and approvals, or third-party use of the same licenses or frequencies, could result in a significant increase in costs and decline in revenues. Our SVR services business model is based on the existence of certain conditions, the loss or lack of which in existing or potential markets could adversely affect our revenues generated in existing markets or our growth potential. Our SVR services business model and, consequently, our ability to provide our SVR services and sell our AVL products, relies on our ability to successfully identify markets in which: n the rate of car theft or consumer concern over vehicle safety is high; n satisfactory radio frequencies are available to us that allow us to operate our business in an uninterrupted manner; and n insurance companies or owners of cars believe that the value of cars justifies incurring the expense associated with the deployment of SVR services. The absence of such conditions, our inability to locate markets in which such conditions exist or the loss of any one of the above conditions in markets we currently serve could adversely affect our revenues generated in existing markets or our growth potential. 8 Some of our agreements restrict our ability to expand into new markets for our SVR services and our AMR products, which could adversely affect our growth potential. We have entered into the following agreements that include restrictions on our ability to sell certain of our services and products: n We have granted Korean Location Information and Communications Company Ltd., a South Korean company, a right of first refusal to provide location-based services, based on AVL infrastructure and end-units supplied by us, in the far east and south-east Asia, including Japan, but excluding China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. n We have granted Golden Net Communication Technology Ltd., a Chinese company, the exclusive rights to provide SVR services, based on an AVL infrastructure and AVL end-units supplied by us, in China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. In addition, once we receive $150 million in revenues from sales of our AVL products to Golden Net, we are obligated to transfer title and ownership to all of our intellectual property rights, including know-how, patents and source code, relating to our AVL system to Golden Net for its use in China, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. n We have granted Arad Technologies Ltd. the exclusive right (subject to certain limited exceptions) to purchase our AMR products. As a result, we are not permitted to independently market our AMR products to any entity other than Arad Technologies. Furthermore, Arad Technologies currently uses our AMR products only with respect to water meter products and applications and not in the gas and electricity meter markets, which we believe to be potential new markets for our AMR products. These agreements restrict our ability to expand our business and operations in certain markets, which could adversely affect our growth potential. We rely on a single customer for the sale of our AMR products and the loss of such customer or such customer’s failure to effectively market and sell our AMR products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and growth potential. We sell our AMR products exclusively to Arad Technologies who incorporates our AMR products into a water meter product that it markets and distributes to utilities in the United States through its wholly-owned subsidiary Master Meter, Inc. Therefore, the volume of our existing AMR products sales is wholly dependent upon Arad Technologies’ demand for our products, which demand may not match or exceed historical levels. Any factors that adversely impact the operations of Arad Technologies, or result in our loss of its business, could adversely impact our AMR business. For example, Arad Technologies exclusively sells our AMR products to customers in the utility industry where sales cycles are often long and unpredictable. Furthermore, because we sell our AMR products exclusively to Arad Technologies, we rely on Arad Technologies for the effective marketing and sale of our AMR products to end-users. The failure of Arad Technologies to maintain or increase current demand for its products that incorporate our AMR products could have an adverse effect on our revenues and growth potential. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects for growth. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of key management personnel, including our Chairman of the Board of Directors, our Co-Chief Executive Officers and the President and Chief Executive Officer of our subsidiary, Telematics Wireless Ltd. Loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If one or more members of our management team or other key technical personnel become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, and if additional key personnel cannot be hired and retained as needed, our business and prospects for growth could be adversely affected. 9 We rely on third parties to manufacture our wireless communications products, which could affect our ability to provide such products in a timely and cost-effective manner, adversely impacting our revenues and profit margins. We outsource the manufacturing of most of our wireless communications products to third parties. Furthermore, we use one manufacturer for production of a significant portion of our wireless communications products and we do not maintain significant levels of inventories to support us in the event of an unexpected interruption in its manufacturing process. If our principal manufacturer or any of our other manufacturers is unable to or fails to manufacture our products in a timely manner, we may not be able to secure alternative manufacturing facilities without experiencing an interruption in the supply of our products or an increase in production costs. Any such interruption or increase in production costs could affect our ability to provide our wireless communications products in a timely and cost-effective manner, adversely impacting our revenues and profit margins. We depend on the use of specialized quality assurance testing equipment for the production of our wireless communications products, the loss or unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We and our third-party manufacturers use specialized quality assurance testing equipment in the production of our products. The replacement of any such equipment as a result of its failure or loss could result in a disruption of our production process or an increase in costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The adoption of industry standards that do not incorporate the technology we use may decrease or eliminate the demand for our services or products and could harm our results of operations. There are no established industry standards in all of the businesses in which we sell our wireless communications products. For example, vehicle location devices may operate by employing various technologies, including network triangulation, GPS, satellite-based or network-based cellular or direction-finding homing systems. The development of industry standards that do not incorporate the technology we use may decrease or eliminate the demand for our services or products and we may not be able to develop new services and products that are in compliance with such new industry standards on a cost-effective basis. If industry standards develop and such standards do not incorporate our wireless communications products and we are unable to effectively adapt to such new standards, such development could harm our results of operations. Expansion of our operations to new markets involves risks and our failure to manage such risks may delay or preclude our ability to generate anticipated revenues and may impede our overall growth strategy. Our contracts with third-party providers for the establishment of AVL systems in China and South Korea represent important growth opportunities for the sale of our AVL infrastructure and AVL end-units. The expansion into these new markets involves challenges and risks, including tariffs, trade restrictions and foreign import export regulations as well as weak intellectual property law protection in China, and restrictive regulatory schemes or local customs in South Korea. 10 In addition, we anticipate future growth to be attributable to our business activities in new markets, particularly in developing countries, where we may encounter additional risks and challenges, such as longer payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences, potential difficulties in collecting receivables and potential difficulties in enforcing agreements or other rights in foreign legal systems. The challenges and risks of entering a new market, and in particular the risks associated with us commencing operations in China and South Korea, may delay or preclude our ability to generate anticipated revenues and may impede our overall growth strategy. Specifically, with regard to our operations in China, China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises. However, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. Additionally, our partner in China has informed us that the Chinese government may hold a direct or indirect interest in the local operating companies established by our Chinese partner and that it has a controlling interest in the operating company in Shanghai, Shanghai Golden Net Location & Measurement Co. Ltd. As of the date of this report, we do not know what the scope of such interest will be or what control or influence the Chinese government will exercise over the other operating companies that will be formed. Any such exercise or control may adversely impact the business activities of these operating companies, and thus adversely impact our growth potential and revenues derived pursuant to our contractual arrangements with our Chinese partners. In addition, a change in policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect the operations of our Chinese partner, by, among other things, imposing confiscatory taxation, restricting currency conversion, imports and sources of supplies, or expropriating private enterprises, which may adversely impact our growth potential and revenues derived pursuant to our contractual arrangements with our Chinese partners. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for nearly two decades, no assurance can be given that the Chinese government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership or other social or political disruption. Part of our fleet management business relies on GPS-based technology owned and controlled by others, the loss, impairment or increased expense of which could negatively impact our immediate and future revenues from, or growth of, our fleet management services and adversely affect our results of operations. Part of our fleet management business relies on signals from GPS satellites built and maintained by third parties. If GPS satellites become unavailable to us, or if the costs associated with using GPS technology increase such that it is no longer feasible or cost-effective for us to use such technology, we will not be able to adequately provide our fleet management services. In addition, if one or more GPS satellites malfunction, there could be a substantial delay before such satellites are repaired or replaced, if at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could negatively impact our immediate and future revenues from, or growth of, our fleet management services and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Due to the already high penetration of SVR services and AVL products in Israel and moderate overall growth of the addressable market in Israel, our prospects for growth in such market may be limited. Our AVL products are primarily installed in medium- and high-end cars and commercial vehicles. Therefore, our ability to increase demand for our SVR services and revenues from sales of our AVL products is limited by the number of potential vehicles in which our products can be installed in each relevant market. We currently estimate that our AVL products are installed in a significant portion of the medium- and high-end cars and commercial vehicles in Israel. We anticipate that revenues from sales of our SVR services and AVL products in Israel will not increase significantly due to the already high penetration of SVR services and AVL products in Israel and moderate overall growth of the addressable market in Israel, which could adversely affect our prospects for growth in such markets. We may not be able to offset the loss of revenues from the decline in our cellular services, which would adversely affect our results of operations when compared to results of operations of prior periods. We derived 10.2%, 2.4% and 0% of our total revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, from the provision of our cellular services. Our revenues from such services have declined significantly due to the expiration and non-renewal of our agreement with Partner Communications Co., Ltd. as of March 31, 2005, which agreement was the source of a significant portion of our revenues for this business. If we are unable to substitute these revenues, in whole or in part, with increasing revenues from our existing business segments, our results of operations will decline when compared to our results of operations for prior periods. Some of our employees are members of labor unions and a dispute between us and any such labor union could result in a labor strike that could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in the markets where such employees are located. Some of our employees are members of labor unions. If a labor dispute were to develop between us and our unionized employees, such employees could go on strike and we could suffer work stoppage for a significant period of time. A labor dispute can be difficult to resolve and may require us to seek arbitration for resolution, which arbitration can be time consuming, distracting to management, expensive and difficult to predict. The occurrence of a labor dispute with our unionized employees could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in the markets where such employees are located. 12 We are subject to litigation that could result in significant costs to us, a reduction in the price of our ordinary shares or dilution of our shareholders’ ownership percentage. We are a party to a litigation between us and Leonardo L.P. (and certain of its related parties) arising from a financial transaction concluded in February 2000. Pursuant to such transaction, Leonardo invested $12 million in our company in return for notes that were convertible into our ordinary shares. We believe that the terms of the transaction dictated that the notes could be converted into a maximum of 2,250,000 of our ordinary shares and that upon conversion of the notes, the notes would be fully discharged and we would have no further obligation to the holders of the notes. Through the maturity date of the notes, March 3, 2003, Leonardo exercised its right to convert the notes into 2,241,594 of our ordinary shares. Immediately following the maturity date of the notes, however, Leonardo sent us a demand to repay in cash the balance of the notes plus accrued interest which had not been previously converted into our ordinary shares, which, according to Leonardo, was approximately $6.2 million. We subsequently commenced this litigation to obtain a judicial determination of the proper disposition of the Leonardo notes and to obtain a declaration that our sole remaining obligation under the notes was to issue 8,406 of our ordinary shares. In its pleadings, Leonardo is seeking alternative remedies and relief, including, among others, (a) the repayment in cash of the balance of the notes in the amount of approximately $6.2 million plus interest and expenses, (b) the delivery to Leonardo of the maximum number of our ordinary shares into which the notes could have been converted on the maturity date without regard to the 2,250,000 share limitation, or 3,516,462 ordinary shares, plus additional monetary damages, or (c) the payment of a cash amount equal to the amount obtained by multiplying the 3,516,462 shares mentioned in the preceding clause by the highest trading price of our ordinary shares between the maturity date and the date of the court’s decision, plus interest or expenses. In addition, in June 2006, Leonardo was initially permitted to amend its claim to add an additional cause of action, claiming that on January 29, 2002 we also breached the same agreement because Moked Ituran Ltd. distributed some of our shares to other parties, in violation of the covenant that entitles Leonardo the option to redeem the notes Moked Ituran to maintain at least 70% of the number of our shares that it held at the time we entered into the financial transaction with Leonardo. Based on such alleged breach, Leonardo is seeking an additional alternative remedy of $9.6 million, plus interest and expenses. We successfully appealed the decision of the court that permitted Leonardo to amend its claim, and the appeals court reversed the decision withdrew Leonardo’s permission to amend its claim. Leonardo subsequently filed a request for leave to appeal such decision to the Israeli Supreme Court, which request was denied. Although there can be no assurances as to the final outcome of this litigation, we believe that the maximum liability that we could have in this matter, assuming that a court rejects our interpretation of the agreements or determines that we have otherwise defaulted on the notes, is approximately $9.6 million plus interest and expenses. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this litigation. While we cannot predict the outcome of this litigation at this time, if Leonardo prevails, the award to Leonardo of damages, either in cash or by delivery of our ordinary shares, could result in significant costs to us, adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, the issuance of our ordinary shares to Leonardo may impact the share price of our ordinary shares and would dilute our shareholders’ ownership percentage. See also Item 8.A – “Consolidated Statements and other Financial Information” under the caption “Legal Proceedings” below. We have not obtained nor applied for several of the permits required for the operation of some of our base sites. To the extent enforcement is sought, the breadth, quality and capacity of our network coverage could be materially affected. The provision of our SVR services depends upon adequate network coverage for accurate tracking information. In Israel, we have installed 93 base sites that provide complete communications coverage in Israel. Similarly, we have established complete communications coverage in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Buenos Aires, Argentina and Miami, Florida. The installation and operation of most of our base sites require building permits from local or regional zoning authorities as well as a number of additional permits from governmental and regulatory authorities. Currently most of our base sites in Israel and Brazil operate without local building permits or the equivalent. Although relevant authorities in Israel and Brazil have not historically enforced penalties for non-compliance with certain permit regulations, following ongoing press coverage and actions by various public interest groups, relevant Israeli authorities have recently begun seeking enforcement of permit regulations, especially with respect to antennas constructed for cellular phone operators. Some possible enforcement measures include the closure or demolition of existing base sites. Should these enforcement measures be imposed upon us in Israel or should the relevant authorities in Brazil similarly begin enforcing permit requirements, or impose penalties on us for non-compliance with such permit requirements, the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and, as a result, our ability to provide SVR services, may be adversely affected. 13 Currency fluctuations may result in valuation adjustments in our assets and liabilities and could cause our results of operations to decline. The valuation of our assets and liabilities and our revenues received and the related expenses incurred are not always denominated in the same currency. This lack of correlation between revenues and expenses exposes us to risks resulting from currency fluctuations. These currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in currencies may result in valuation adjustments in our assets and liabilities which could cause our results of operations to decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL We are headquartered in Israel and therefore our results of operations may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our headquarters and sole research and development facilities are located in Israel and our key employees, officers and directors are residents of Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Since 2000, hostilities have increased in intensity and regional political uncertainty has also increased. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group, and the virtual “take-over” of the Gaza Strip by Hamas in June 2007 has created unrest and uncertainty in the region. Furthermore, in the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Continued or increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Israel has experienced in recent years, unionized general strikes in connection with the legislation of new economic reforms. A prolonged general strike in Israel would affect our ability provide our wireless communications products that are manufactured in Israel and would negatively impact our operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies and as a result our company is precluded from marketing its products in these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed toward Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse affect on our ability to grow our business and our results of operations. We receive tax benefits that may be reduced or eliminated in the future, which reduction or elimination could result in us paying increased taxes thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Some of our operations in Israel have been granted “approved enterprise” status by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade that resulted in us being eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959. The availability of these tax benefits is subject to certain requirements, including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions, compliance with our marketing program which was submitted to the Investment Center, filing of certain reports with the Investment Center and compliance with Israeli intellectual property laws. If we do not meet these requirements in the future, these tax benefits may be cancelled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have already received plus interest and penalties thereon. The tax benefits that our current “approved enterprise” program receives may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase, which could adversely affect our cash from operations. See Item 10.E. – “Taxation” under the caption “Israeli Tax Considerations” below. 14 Under Israeli law, we are considered a “monopoly” and therefore subject to certain restrictions that may negatively impact our ability to grow our business in Israel. We have been declared a monopoly under the Israeli Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988, in the market for the provision of systems for the location of vehicles. Under Israeli law, a monopoly is prohibited from taking certain actions, such as predatory pricing and the provision of loyalty discounts, which prohibitions do not apply to other companies. The Israeli antitrust authority may further declare that we have abused our position in the market. Any such declaration in any suit in which it is claimed that we engage in anti-competitive conduct would serve as prima facie evidence that we are a monopoly or that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior. Furthermore, we may be ordered to take or refrain from taking certain actions, such as set maximum prices, in order to protect against unfair competition. Restraints on our operations as a result of being considered a “monopoly” in Israel could adversely affect our ability to grow our business in Israel. It may be difficult and costly to enforce a judgment issued in the United States against us, our executive officers and directors, or to assert United States securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated and headquartered in Israel. As a result, our executive officers and directors are non-residents of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, service of process upon any of these officers or directors may be difficult to effect in the United States. Furthermore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment issued against us in the United States against us or any of such persons in both United States courts and other courts abroad. Additionally, there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel or in actions for the enforcement of a judgment obtained in the United States on the basis of civil liabilities in Israel. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may delay, prevent or otherwise encumber a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company, which could prevent a change of control, even when the terms of such transaction are favorable to us and our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain, among other things, provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as classified board provisions. In the future, we may amend our articles of association to include certain additional provisions that may be required by the Ministry of Communications limiting the voting power that could be acquired, absent Ministry of Communications approval, by any person other than our founding shareholders. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transaction structures involving the acquisition of our company unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B. – “Our Corporate Practices under Israeli Law” under the caption “Approval of Transactions under Israeli law” and Item 10.E. – “Taxation” under the caption “Israeli Tax Considerations” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or otherwise encumber a merger with, or an acquisition of, our company or any of our assets, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even when the terms of such a transaction could be favorable to our shareholders. 15 The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders will be governed by Israeli law and may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under United States law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical US-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in the recent years and, as a result, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholders’ actions, which may be interpreted to impose additional obligations on holders of our ordinary shares that are typically not imposed on shareholders of US-based corporations. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET AND OUR ORDINARY SHARES Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. If we or our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, either on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuation, which could result in substantial losses for our investors. The stock market in general, and the market price of our ordinary shares in particular, are subject to fluctuation, and changes in our share price may be unrelated to our operating performance. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated in the past, and we expect it will continue to do so, as a result of a number of factors, including: n the gain or loss of significant orders or customers; n recruitment or departure of key personnel; n the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; n quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; n announcements related to litigation; n changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earning estimates; n developments in our industry; and n general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. 16 These factors and price fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and result in substantial losses to our investors. A significant portion of our ordinary shares are held by a small number of existing shareholders and you may not agree with some or all of the decisions taken by such shareholders. Our directors and officers, in the aggregate, currently beneficially own or control approximately 29.65% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Other than applicable regulatory requirements under applicable law, these shareholders are not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in our company to a third party. These shareholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and may use their voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to elect or remove directors, to approve or reject mergers or other business combination transactions, the decision to raise additional capital and the amendment of our articles of association that govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive our shareholders of a possible premium for ordinary shares as part of a sale of our company. US investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, which we refer to as PFIC, for US federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse US tax consequences to our shareholders who are US Holders. See Item 10.E. – “Taxation” under the caption “United States Tax Considerations” below, for more information about which shareholders may qualify as US Holders. If we were classified as a PFIC, a US Holder could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” Under such rules, the excess distribution and any gain would be allocated ratably over the US Holder’s holding period for the ordinary shares and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax allocated to such other taxable years. In addition, holders of shares in a PFIC may not receive a “step-up” in basis on shares acquired from a decedent. US shareholders should consult with their own US tax advisors with respect to the United States tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares as well as the specific application of the “excess distribution” and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Item 10.E. – “Taxation” under the caption “United States Tax Considerations–Passive foreign investment company considerations” Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq National Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets takes place in different currencies (dollars on the Nasdaq National Market and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 17 Securities we issue to fund our operations or in connection with acquisitions could dilute our shareholders ownership or impact the value of our ordinary shares. We may decide to raise additional funds through a public or private debt or equity financing to fund our operations or finance acquisitions. If we issue additional equity securities, the percentage of ownership of our shareholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of our ordinary shares, which may, in turn, adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares. 