Risk Factors We may not be able to consummate a business combination by October 2, 2008, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance of the trust account at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $4.0 million) within 24 months—if we enter into a definitive agreement or letter of intent to consummate a business combination—within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We are a newly formed, development stage company with a limited operating history and no revenues from operations, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with limited operating results. Because we lack an established operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target businesses concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations until after completing a business combination. If we expend all of the funds not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $1.6 million on the balance of the trust account that has been released to us to fund our working capital requirements (subject to the tax holdback) in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. If we liquidate before concluding a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and must liquidate our assets, the Liquidation Price will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing a business combination. You will not receive protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are designated for completing a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because on consummation of our initial public offering we had net tangible assets in excess of 98,000,000 and filed a Form 8-K with the SEC that included an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from SEC rules such as Rule 419 that are designed to protect investors in blank check companies. Accordingly, our stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of that rule. Among other things, this means our units are immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless, and only after, the funds held in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of a business combination. 14 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the Liquidation Price received by you could be reduced. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law Sections 280 and 281, upon our dissolution we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of our claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured claims. These amounts must be paid or provided for before we make any distributions to our stockholders. While we intend to pay such amounts, if any, from the interest on the trust account available to us for working capital, we cannot assure you those funds will be sufficient to cover such claims and obligations. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or if executed, that such waivers will be enforceable or otherwise prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the actual Liquidation Price could be less than the Liquidation Price based upon the proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private place of the sponsor warrants placed in the trust account, without taking into account interest earned on the trust account subsequent to our initial public offering, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be personally liable for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of any third party if such third party does not execute a waiver of its rights, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the trust account, but only to the extent any claims made against the trust account and the payment of such debts or obligations actually reduces the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be able to satisfy those obligations. Based on the information in his director and officer questionnaire provided to us in connection with our initial public offering as well as the representations as to his accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act), we currently believe that Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier are of substantial means and capable of funding their indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claims of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. We expect that all costs associated with implementing our plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as payments to any creditors will be funded from the interest on the trust account available to us as working capital. If such funds are insufficient to cover the costs of our dissolution and liquidation, Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier have agreed to indemnify us for our out-of-pocket costs associated with such dissolution and liquidation, excluding any special, indirect or consequential costs, such as litigation, pertaining to such dissolution and liquidation. We estimate that our total costs and expenses for implementing and completing our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation will be in the range of $50,000 to $75,000. This amount includes all costs and expenses relating to filing of our dissolution in the State of Delaware, the winding up of our company and the costs of a proxy statement and meeting relating to the approval by our stockholders of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. 15 Furthermore, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution of the trust account pursuant to federal or state creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public stockholders. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Accordingly, the actual per share amount distributed from the trust account to our public stockholders could be significantly less than expected Liquidation Price, without taking into account interest earned on the trust account subsequent to our initial public offering (net of taxes payable on interest income on the funds in the trust account and interest income of up to $1.6 million on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements, including the costs of our dissolution and liquidation). Any claims by creditors could cause additional delays in the distribution of trust funds to the public stockholders beyond the time periods required to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with members of our management team, conflicts of interest could arise. Members of our management team either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies that we may seek to acquire. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that a business combination with an affiliated entity is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view, potential conflicts of interest may still exist, and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would have been absent any conflicts of interest. If we issue capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete a business combination, your equity interest in us could be reduced or there may be a change in control of our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of December 31, 2007, there were 171,048,050 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the sponsor warrants) and all of the 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We have no current commitments to issue any additional securities. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or may issue preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or any preferred stock: · may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, and result in the resignation or agreed-upon removal of our management team; and · may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. 16 Stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we do not complete a business combination within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, we will dissolve and distribute to our public stockholders an amount equal to the amount in the trust account, including (i) all accrued interest, net of income taxes payable on such interest and interest of up to $1.6 million on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements, including the costs of our dissolution and liquidation, and (ii) all deferred underwriting discounts and commissions plus any remaining assets. Under Delaware law, creditors of a corporation have a superior right to stockholders in the distribution of assets upon dissolution. Consequently, if the trust account is dissolved and paid out prior to all creditors being paid on their claims, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. Sections 280 and Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law set forth two procedures that a dissolved corporation may follow when winding up its affairs. We cannot predict at this time which procedure we would comply with in the event of liquidation. If we elect to comply with Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, we would obtain greater certainty as to potential claims, and we, or a successor entity to us, may reject, in whole or in part, claims that are made. In addition, should we choose to comply with Section 280, a creditor who receives actual notice of our dissolution, as required by Section 280, would be barred from receiving payment if the claimant failed to present the claim in accordance with the required timeframes. Specifically, if we comply with certain procedures intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us and a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. If we elect to comply with the procedures set forth at Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders will not know at the time of dissolution the scope of potential claims against us. Our stockholders could therefore potentially be liable for claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders will extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Under Delaware law, our dissolution requires the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, without which we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate, and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. We will promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation if we do not effect a business combination within 24 months after consummation of our initial public offering. However, pursuant to Delaware law, our dissolution requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. Soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with the SEC and could be subject to its review. This process could take a substantial amount of time ranging from 40 days to several months. As a result, the distribution of our assets to the public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders’ meeting, resolicit our stockholders, or amend our plan of dissolution and liquidation to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to dissolve and liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering, and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our dissolution in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific timeframe for the dissolution and distribution. 17 If we acquire a company by issuing debt securities, our post-combination operating results may decline due to increased interest expense or our liquidity may be adversely affected by an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration, even if we are then current in our debt service obligations, if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and such covenants are breached without waiver or renegotiation; · a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing. Our initial stockholders currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. The holders of shares of our common stock issued prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, whom we refer to as our initial stockholders, own approximately 22% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital Partners, LLC have agreed that any common stock they acquire in or after our initial public offering will be voted in favor of a business combination that is presented to our public stockholders. Accordingly, shares of common stock acquired by the initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital Partners, LLC in or after our initial public offering will not have the same voting or conversion rights as our public stockholders with respect to a potential business combination, and will not be eligible to exercise conversion rights for those shares if a business combination is approved by a majority of our public stockholders. Our long-term success is dependent upon yet to be identified members of our management team. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is totally dependent upon the efforts of our management team. The future role of our management team in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some members of our management team will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that the management team of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place given that it is likely that they will have greater knowledge, experience and expertise than our management in the industry in which the target business operates as well as in managing the target business. Thus, even though our management team may continue to be associated with us in various capacities after a business combination, it is likely that we will be dependent upon a yet to be identified management team for our long-term success. We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. 18 We will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In accordance with our acquisition strategy, we will likely seek a business combination with one or more privately-held companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, then we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Members of our management team are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and business opportunities. Members of our management team are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. As a result, members of our management team may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to these existing and future affiliations, members of our management team may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, members of our management team may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Moreover, members of our management team are not obligated to expend a specific number of hours per week or month on our affairs. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that more than 19.99% of our public shareholders vote against the transaction and opt to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our shareholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Because the shares of common stock owned by our initial stockholders before our initial public offering are prohibited from participating in liquidation distributions by us, Messrs. Marshall, Brendlinger, Pulier, Sassa, Clement, Schultz and Baradaran may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Our initial stockholders have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the shares of common stock purchased by them before our initial public offering if we liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination. The personal and financial interests of Messrs. Messrs. Marshall, Brendlinger, Pulier, Sassa, Clement, Schultz and Baradaran may influence their identification and selection of a target business, and may affect how or when we complete a business combination. The exercise of discretion by Messrs. Messrs. Marshall, Brendlinger, Pulier, Sassa, Clement, Schultz and Baradaran in identifying and selecting one or more suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when they decide if the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 19 Unless we complete a business combination, members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the amount not in the trust account and interest income of up to $1.6 million on the trust account balance that has been released to us to fund our working capital requirements. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Members of our management team will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not in the trust account and interest income of up to $1.6 million on the trust account balance that has been released to us to fund our working capital requirements, unless the business combination is consummated. Members of our management team may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’ owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management team to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interests of members of our management team could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the sponsor warrants, meaning our operations will depend on a single business that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment of an industry. The net proceeds from our initial public offering, exercise of the over-allotment, and the private placement of the 413,125 units provided us with approximately $98.6 million that we may use to complete a business combination, excluding any interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account subsequent to completion of our initial public offering. Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $4.0 million). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $4.0 million). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the sponsor warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in, diversified industries or industry segments. 20 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We will encounter intense competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including other blank check companies, private equity groups and leveraged buyout funds, as well as operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and completing business combinations. A number of these competitors possess greater technical, financial, human and other resources than we do. Our limited financial resources may have a negative effect on our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses. Further, because we must obtain stockholder approval of a business combination, this may delay the consummation of a transaction, while our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders who elect conversion may reduce the financial resources available for a business combination. Our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. In addition, if our initial business combination entails a simultaneous purchase of several operating businesses owned by different sellers, we may be unable to coordinate a simultaneous closing of the purchases. This may result in a target business seeking a different buyer and our being unable to meet the threshold requirement that the target business has, or target businesses collectively have, a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $4.0 million) at the time of such combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. 21 We will depend on the limited funds available outside of the trust account and a portion of the interest earned on the trust account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes interest income of up to a maximum of $1.6 million (subject to the tax holdback), a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. However, neither our management team nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us under any circumstances. We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of sponsor warrants are sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination. However, because we have no oral or written agreements or letters of intent to engage in a business combination with any entity, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the sponsor warrants are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: · of the size of the target business; · of the depletion of offering proceeds not in trust or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance that is expended in search of a target business; or · we must convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock owned by stockholders who elect to exercise their conversion rights and we had anticipated using such cash to consummate the business combination, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. Such restructuring could include, among other things, a reduction in the cash purchase price for the target business, the issuance or additional issuance of shares of our capital stock to the stockholders of the target business, or the stockholders of the target business allowing us to pay some of the purchase price for the target business in the form of a promissory note. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require such financing to operate or grow the target business. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. Neither our management team nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The units sold in our initial public offering include warrants to purchase 12,500,000 shares of common stock. We also sold 413,125 units to an entity owned and controlled by Messrs. Baradaran, Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier, which included warrants to purchase 413,125 shares of our common stock. If we issue common stock to conclude a business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete a business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 22 An effective registration statement or a current prospectus may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise, we have registered with the SEC the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock is not registered with the SEC or if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or unredeemed. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise while a prospectus is not current, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption. Such redemption can and may occur while a prospectus is not current and therefore the warrants are not exercisable. If this occurs, your warrants would be worthless. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital Partners, LLC may make it more difficult to complete a business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our initial stockholders, including an entity owned and controlled by Messrs. Baradaran, Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier, can demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after one year from the date we complete a business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If our initial stockholders and the entity owned and controlled by Messrs. Baradaran, Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier exercise their registration rights in full, there will then be an additional 413,125 shares of common stock and 413,125 shares of common stock issued on exercise of warrants that are eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make a business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital, LLC are registered. 23 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we must meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities may increase the difficulty of completing a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the nature of our investments and the issuance of our securities may be subject to various restrictions. These restrictions may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may be subject to burdensome compliance requirements and may have to: · register as an investment company; · adopt a specific form of corporate structure; and · report, maintain records and adhere to voting, proxy, disclosure and other requirements. We do not believe that our planned principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. In this regard, our agreement with the trustee states that proceeds in the trust account will only be invested in “government securities” (as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940) and one or more money market funds, selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or tax exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States and otherwise meeting the conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses and could make a business combination more difficult to complete. The loss of Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier. We believe that our success depends on his continued service to us, at least until we have consummated a business combination We cannot assure you that they will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have an employment agreement with them. The unexpected loss of any of their services could have a detrimental effect on us. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange; however, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; 24 · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Since we may acquire a target business that is located outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. As described above, we may acquire a business or businesses located outside the United States. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include but are not limited to: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the U.S.; · cultural and language differences; · foreign exchange controls; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we will not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Because our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $4.0 million) at the time of our initial business combination, we will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Inapplicable. Item 