Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of the risks described in this item, though the risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Such additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this document. We have a history of operating losses and may never become profitable. We have incurred significant losses in recent years, including net losses of approximately $10.3 million, $9.4 million, $74.5 million, respectively, in the years ended January 28, 2006, January 31, 2005 and January 31, 2004. Although we currently expect to report net profits by the end of fiscal 2006, our expectations may not be realized and our losses may continue as we continue our retail store expansion program, expand into new geographic markets and undertake the operational and regulatory compliance obligations applicable to a public company. If our revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. Our ability to achieve or maintain profitability will also depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. We expect to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures to establish ourselves as an independent company, including increased general and administrative costs to support our operations and the increased costs of being a public company. We also expect to incur significant increases in operating expenses and capital expenditures in connection with our retail store expansion program. Additionally, we base our expenses in large part on our operating plans, current business strategies and future revenue projections. Many of our expenses, such as our retail store lease expenses, are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce expenses and spending if our revenues are lower than we project. In addition, we may find that our costs to expand our operations, and in particular the costs to build and outfit our new retail stores, are more expensive than we currently anticipate. Therefore, the magnitude and timing of these expenses may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We have no recent operating history as an independent company. By virtue of our recent Spinoff from Alloy, Inc. we are now an independent public company. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and achieve or maintain profitability are solely dependent upon the future performance of our business, and we are not be able to rely upon the financial and other resources of Alloy, Inc. Additionally, we previously were able to rely on Alloy, Inc. to guaranty leases in connection with negotiations with landlords over lease terms for our retail stores. Following our Spinoff from Alloy, Inc. we are no longer able to rely on Alloy, Inc. guaranties, which may result in us having to pay higher rents or prevent us from obtaining the retail store leases in the first instance. While we believe we compete effectively for sales and for favorable site locations within malls and lease terms, competition for prime locations within malls is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us, if at all. During the period of its ownership of our business, Alloy, Inc. performed certain significant corporate functions for us, including certain legal functions, accounting, benefit program administration, insurance administration, internal audit and tax services, as well as certain media and marketing services. Alloy, Inc. will continue to provide some of these media and marketing services to us now that the Spinoff is complete. In connection with the Spinoff, we took steps to create our own, or to engage third parties to provide, corporate business functions that will replace those provided by Alloy, Inc. including all legal functions, accounting, benefit program administration, insurance administration, internal audit and tax services. As an independent public company, we are required to bear the cost of replacing these services. We may not be able to perform, or engage third parties to provide, these functions with the same level of expertise and on the same or as favorable terms as they have been provided by Alloy, Inc. In such event, our business and operations could suffer. 15 Table of Contents We may fail to use our databases and our expertise in marketing to teenage consumers successfully, and we may not be able to maintain the quality and size of our databases. The effective use of our consumer databases and our expertise in marketing to teenage consumers are important components of our business. If we fail to capitalize on these assets, our business will be less successful. Currently, we have useful data for only a portion of the total teenage market. Additionally, as individuals in our databases age beyond age 19, they are less likely to purchase our products and their data is thus of less value to our business. We must therefore continuously obtain data on new potential teenage customers and on those persons who are just entering their teenage years in order to maintain and increase the size and value of our databases. If we fail to obtain sufficient numbers of new names and related information, our business could be adversely affected. Our agreement with Alloy, Inc. to jointly own our database information may make such information less valuable to us. We and Alloy, Inc. have agreed that we will jointly own all data collected by dELiA*s, Alloy, or CCS (excluding credit card data), subject to applicable laws and privacy policies, although Alloy, Inc. has agreed not to provide certain of such data to our competitors, with some limited exceptions. We have full access to all of the data, but we have agreed not to use any of the data other than in connection with our merchandising and retail store activities, except in limited situations. Nevertheless, because we and Alloy, Inc. now jointly own such database information, certain actions that Alloy, Inc. could take, such as breaching its contractual covenants, could result in our losing a significant portion of the competitive advantage we believe our databases provide to us. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, because we have agreed to limitations on our use of that data, we will be unable to sell or license any of such data to third parties, which limits our ability to earn income from such data. Our success depends largely on the value of our brands and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our sales are likely to decline. The prominence of dELiA*s, Alloy, and CCS catalogs and e-commerce webpages and our dELiA*s specialty retail stores among our teenage target market are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Moreover, we anticipate that we will continue to increase the number of teenage customers we target, through means that could include broadening the intended audience of our existing brands or creating related businesses with new retail concepts. Misjudgments by us in this regard could damage our existing or future brands. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales. If we fail to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors, our sales are likely to decline. Customer tastes and fashion trends in the teenage market are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower and we may be faced with unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our senior management team has not worked together as a group for a significant period of time, and may not be able to effectively manage our business. Robert E. Bernard, our Chief Executive Officer, and Walter Killough, our Chief Operating Officer, each joined our company in October 2003. David Desjardins, our Chief Stores Officer, joined our company in February, 2005. Additionally, our new Chief Financial Officer, John Holowko, was appointed on January 24, 2006. As a result, our senior management team lacks a history of working together as a group. Our senior management team’s lack of shared experience could have an adverse effect on its ability to quickly and effectively respond to problems and effectively manage our business. Our directors have not worked together as a group for a significant period of time, with only three having any experience as a director of a public company, and they may not be able to effectively manage our business. Two of our current directors, Robert E. Bernard and Walter Killough, each joined our company in October, 2003 and each was appointed a director of ours in August, 2005. Another director, Matthew Feshbach, was appointed a director of Alloy, Inc., in September, 2004, and a director of ours in August, 2005. Three additional directors, Peter Goodson, Scott M. Rosen and Carter Evans, were appointed as directors between November, 2005 and February, 2006. Only Messrs. Feshbach, Goodson and Evans have any experience as a director of a public company. None of Messrs. Bernard, Killough or Feshbach is considered independent under applicable rules of the SEC or NASDAQ. As a result, our board of directors will lack a history of working together as a group, and may lack any significant experience in operating a public company. Our board’s lack of shared experience and possible lack of experience in operating a public company could have an adverse effect on its ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. Our dELiA*s retail store expansion strategy depends on our ability to open and operate a certain number of new stores each year, which could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing operations to suffer. Our dELiA*s retail store expansion strategy will largely depend on our ability to find sites for, open and operate new stores successfully. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on several factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • prepare stores for opening within budget; • source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs to meet the needs of new stores; • hire, train and retain store personnel; • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plans. Any failure to successfully open and operate our new stores could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our proposed retail store expansion program will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and our overall business. 17 Table of Contents Our catalog response rates may decline as a result of our increased catalog mailings and new store openings. The number of customers who make purchases from catalogs that we mail to them, which we refer to as “response rates,” may decline due to, among other things, our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. Response rates also usually decline when we mail additional catalog editions to the same customers within a short time period. In addition, as we continue to increase the number of catalogs distributed or mail our catalogs to a broader group of new potential customers, we have observed that these new potential customers respond at lower rates than existing customers historically have responded. Since the acquisition of dELiA*s, we have mailed our Alloy catalogs to selected dELiA*s catalog customers and our dELiA*s catalogs to selected Alloy catalog customers (which practice we refer to as cross-mailing), which has resulted in generally lower response rates from the dELiA*s catalogs customers who also are sent Alloy catalogs and vice-versa. Additional cross-mailings of such catalogs could result in further such response rate declines. Although it is our expectation that the additional sales generated by such cross-mailing will more than offset the declines in response rate, we can give no assurance that these expectations will be realized. If we are mistaken, these trends in response rates are likely to have a material adverse effect on our rate of sales growth and on our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Traffic to our e-commerce webpages may decline, resulting in fewer purchases of our products. Additionally, the number of e-commerce visitors that we are able to convert into purchasers may decline. In order to generate online customer traffic, we depend heavily on mailed catalogs, outbound emails and an affiliates program in which we pay third parties for traffic referred from their websites to our e-commerce webpages. Our sales volume and e-commerce webpages traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, declines in the number and frequency of our catalog mailings, reductions in outbound emails and declines in referrals from third parties. Our sales volume may also be adversely affected by economic downturns, system failures and competition from other internet and non-internet retailers. In addition, the number of e-commerce visitors that we are able to convert into purchasers may decline due to, among other things, our inability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner and our inability to keep up with new technologies and e-commerce features. The internet and the e-commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing e-commerce webpages, the www.delias.com, www.alloy.com and www.ccs.com websites, that Alloy, Inc. maintains and which link to our e-commerce webpages, and our respective systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing our e-commerce webpages and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products or enhancements. If this happens, our customers may forgo the use of our e-commerce webpages and use websites and e-commerce pages of our competitors. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our website, our transaction processing systems and our computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. We do not own the content websites that direct customers to our e-commerce webpages, and thus have to depend on Alloy, Inc. to maintain those websites as attractive sites for our target customers. Pursuant to an agreement with Alloy, Inc., they will continue to own and operate the www.delias.com, www.alloy.com and www.ccs.com websites, the related e-commerce webpages and the related uniform resource locators (“urls”). Although we may transition our e-commerce operations to websites that we own, we will be required to maintain links from such websites to Alloy, Inc.- owned websites, and Alloy, Inc. will be required to maintain links from those websites to our websites. Alloy, Inc. will continue to provide the community and content on each of those websites, and we will have no control over any of such community or content. Because a portion of 18 Table of Contents our direct marketing sales come from our e-commerce sites, if Alloy, Inc. fails to maintain those websites, or fails to maintain those websites as attractive sites for the target audiences, our e-commerce activities may suffer. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues, our quarterly results may fluctuate. Our business is moderately seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for teen clothing and accessories, which provide the majority of our sales, during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons. Typically, a larger portion of our revenues are obtained during our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Any significant decrease in sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year and we must hire temporary workers and incur additional staffing costs in our warehouse and retail stores to meet anticipated sales demand. If sales for the third and fourth quarters do not meet anticipated levels, then increased expenses may not be offset, which could decrease our profitability. Additionally, any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could decrease our profitability. Because we can no longer rely on cash transfers or guarantees from Alloy, Inc., our liquidity and ability to raise capital may be limited, and we may be unable to fund our retail store expansion program. Since September 2003 through the date of our Spinoff, our operations have been funded principally through generated revenues, net transfers from Alloy, Inc. and from borrowings under our existing credit facility. After our Spinoff from Alloy, Inc., we no longer have access to funding provided by Alloy, Inc., nor can we rely on guarantees from Alloy, Inc. for all or a portion of our existing or new obligations, which may make it more difficult, more expensive, or both, for us to obtain financing. We expect that our total capital expenditures, primarily the costs to build out our new stores, will be approximately $16 to $17 million in fiscal 2006. Although we currently expect that the proceeds from the rights offering and the private placement, proceeds from the cash true up with Alloy, Inc., availability under our existing credit facility, plus our current cash flows from operations to be sufficient to fund our near term retail store openings, our expectations may be wrong. If we are wrong, we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund fully our retail store expansion strategy. In addition, if we decide to accelerate growth of our retail operations beyond the ranges stated in our retail strategy, additional debt or equity financing may also be required. The type, timing and terms of the financing selected by us would depend on, among other things, our retail growth plans, our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and prevailing conditions in the financial markets. These sources may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available to us on satisfactory terms. We compete with other retailers for sales and locations in our retail store operations. The teenage girl retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location, in-store environment and service being the principal competitive factors. We compete for retail store sales with specialty apparel retailers and certain other youth-focused apparel retailers, such as Hot Topic, American Eagle Outfitters, Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, Aeropostale, Limited Too, bebe, Forever 21, H&M, Pacific Sunwear and Urban Outfitters. We also compete for retail store sales with full price and discount department stores such as Macy’s, Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s and others. If we are unable to compete effectively for retail store sales, we may lose market share, which would reduce our revenues and gross profit. In addition, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls with certain of our competitors as well as numerous other retailers. Many of our competitors are large national chains, which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. The growth of our retail store business depends significantly on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investments and lease costs that allow us to earn a return that meets or exceeds our financial projections. Desirable new locations may not be available to us at all or at reasonable costs. In addition, we must be able to renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our failure to secure favorable real estate and lease terms generally and upon renewal could cause us to lose market share which would reduce our revenues and gross profit. 19 Table of Contents Competition may adversely affect our business. Many of our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors in our target markets, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These advantages allow our competitors to spend considerably more on marketing and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can use ours. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities and be better able to withstand market downturns than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to attract customers to our retail stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which our stores are located. Any decrease in customer traffic in those malls could negatively impact our sales. Customer traffic in our retail stores depends heavily on locating our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. Sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of other tenants in the malls to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and mall traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the malls in which our retail stores are located. A reduction in mall traffic for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Closing stores or curtailing certain operations could result in significant costs to us. Since the beginning of fiscal 2004, we have closed eleven underperforming retail stores, did not renew the leases on three additional retail stores and ceased catalog circulation in our Girlfriends LA and Old Glory brands. Additionally, during fiscal 2005 we recently sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of DCR, because it was not as profitable as we expected. Although we expect to increase our retail square footage by at least 25% in fiscal 2006 and contemplate opening additional new dELiA*s stores in future years as part of our retail store expansion plan, we could, in the future, decide to close additional dELiA*s retail stores or close or sell businesses or operations that are producing losses or that are not as profitable as we expect. If we decide to close any dELiA*s stores before the expiration of their lease terms, we may incur payments to landlords to terminate or “buy out” the remaining term of the lease. We also may incur costs related to the employees at such stores, whether or not we terminate the leases early. Upon any such closure or sale, the closing costs and inventory write-downs would adversely affect our earnings and could adversely affect our cash on hand. Our dELiA*s exclusive branding activities could lead to increased inventory obsolescence and could harm our relations with other vendors. Our promotion and sale of dELiA*s branded products increases our exposure to risks of inventory obsolescence. Accordingly, if a particular style of product does not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross profit margin and other operating results. Additionally, dELiA*s promotion of its dELiA*s branded products may negatively impact its relationships with existing vendors of branded merchandise. Moreover, dELiA*s exclusive brand development plans may include entry into joint ventures and additional licensing or distribution arrangements, which may limit our control of these operations. Our master license agreement with JLP Daisy LLC could cause us to lose our trademarks or otherwise adversely affect the value of our dELiA*s brand. In February, 2003, one of our subsidiaries, dELiA*s Brand, LLC, entered into a master license agreement with JLP Daisy LLC (“JLP Daisy”) to license our dELiA*s brand on an exclusive basis for wholesale distribution 20 Table of Contents in certain product categories, primarily in mid- and upper-tier department stores, in exchange for an up-front payment from JLP Daisy of $16.5 million, which is applied against royalties otherwise due from JLP Daisy for sales of dELiA*s branded merchandise. The initial term of the master license agreement is approximately 10 years, which is subject to extension under specified circumstances. As part of the master license agreement, dELiA*s Brand, LLC, granted to JLP Daisy a security interest in the dELiA*s trademarks, although the only event that would entitle JLP Daisy to exercise its rights with respect to these trademarks is a termination or rejection of the master license agreement in a bankruptcy proceeding. If we become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, we could lose the rights to our dELiA*s trademarks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Additionally, because sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees have been significantly less than we and JLP Daisy expected when we entered into the master license agreement, we expect that JLP Daisy may try to increase the sales of the dELiA*s branded products by its licensees, by expanding the number of licensed products their licensees offer, the number and type of stores in which such licensed products are sold, or both, so that they can recoup more of their initial advance. We have held preliminary discussions with JLP Daisy about modifying the terms of the master license agreement, but to date, no definitive agreement has been reached regarding such modifications. Sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees may negatively impact our customers’ image of the brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and other operating results. Additionally, a change in our customers’ image of the brand due to sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees to greater numbers of retailers may negatively effect our dELiA*s retail store expansion plans. We depend largely upon a single call center and a single distribution facility. The call center functions for our dELiA*s, Alloy, and CCS catalogs and e-commerce webpages are handled from a single, leased facility in Westerville, Ohio. The distribution for our dELiA*s, Alloy and CCS catalogs and e-commerce webpages and all our dELiA*s retail stores are handled from a single, owned facility in Hanover, Pennsylvania. Any significant interruption in the operation of the call center or distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures, expansion or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to receive orders and distribute merchandise to our customers and retail stores, which could cause our sales to decline. This would have a material adverse effect on our operations and results. We depend upon a single co-location facility to connect to the internet in connection with the e-commerce webpages. We connect to the internet through a single co-location facility in connection with our e-commerce webpages. Any significant interruption in the operations of this facility due to natural disasters, accidents, systems failures, expansion or other unforeseen causes could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results. We may be required to recognize impairment charges. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or at any time when certain events occur, which could impact the value and earnings of our business segments. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the assets’ fair market values with the assets’ carrying values. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. For instance, during fiscal 2003, Alloy, Inc. completed its annual impairment review and recorded a $50.6 million charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill related to our business operations and a $790,000 charge to reduce the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets related to our business operations (excluding discontinued operations). 21 Table of Contents Additionally, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to recognize an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists (i.e., a triggering event) comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If a determination is made that a long-lived asset’s carrying value is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to estimated fair value, if lower. The determination of fair value of long-lived assets is generally based on estimated expected discounted future cash flows, which is generally measured by discounting expected future cash flows identifiable with the long-lived asset at our weighted-average cost of capital. For instance, Alloy, Inc. performed an analysis of the recoverability of certain long-lived assets during fiscal 2003 and recorded an asset impairment charge of $198,000 related to our business operations (excluding discontinued operations). During fiscal 2005 we performed an impairment analysis of long-lived assets and recognized an impairment charge of approximately $522,000 related to property and equipment, and we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $367,000 in our direct marketing segment due to a reduction in response rates. If our manufacturers and importers are unable to produce our proprietary-branded goods on time or to our specifications, we could suffer lost sales. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third party vendors for the manufacture of all of our branded products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by domestic manufacturers and importers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, labor disputes and acts of terrorism, that might affect a manufacturer’s or importer’s ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. Late delivery of products or delivery of products that do not meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers or delay timely delivery of merchandise to our retail stores for those items. These events could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, cause our customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, which could result in lost sales. We rely on third-party vendors for brand-name merchandise sold by our three brands. Our Alloy and CCS businesses depend largely on the ability of third-party vendors and their subcontractors or suppliers to provide us with current-season, brand-name apparel and merchandise at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities, manufactured in compliance with all applicable laws and of acceptable quality. Our dELiA*s brand is similarly dependent on such third-parties, albeit to a lesser extent. We do not have any long-term contracts with any vendor and are not likely to enter into these contracts in the foreseeable future. In addition, many of the smaller vendors that we use are factored and have limited resources, production capacities, and operating histories. Additionally, because the teenage fashion market is volatile and customer taste tends to change rapidly, we must, in order to be successful, identify and obtain merchandise from new third-party brands for which our customers show a preference. As a result, we are subject to the following risks: • our key vendors may fail or be unable to expand with us; • we may lose or cease doing business with one or more key vendors; • our current vendor terms may be changed to require increased payments in advance of delivery, and we may not be able to fund such payments through our current credit facility, cash balances, or our cash flow; • we may not be able to identify or obtain products from new “hot” brands preferred by our customers; and • our ability to procure products in sufficient quantities may be limited. 22 Table of Contents Interruption in our or our vendors’ foreign sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. We believe, based on the country of origin tags that appear on the products we sell, that a substantial portion of the products sold to us by our third-party vendors and domestic importers are produced in factories located in foreign countries, especially in China an other Asian countries. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. Many of our and our vendor’s imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia or elsewhere. We and our vendors compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Our and our vendors’ businesses are also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as political instability, currency and exchange risks, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. Ours and our vendors’ foreign sourcing operations may also be hurt by political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur in Asia or elsewhere or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We must effectively manage our vendors to minimize inventory risk and maintain our margins. We seek to avoid maintaining high inventory levels in an effort to limit the risk of outdated merchandise and inventory write-downs. If we underestimate quantities demanded by our customers and our vendors cannot restock, then we may disappoint customers who may then turn to our competitors. We require many of our vendors to meet minimum restocking requirements, but if our vendors cannot meet these requirements and we cannot find alternate vendors, we could be forced to carry more inventory than we have in the past. Our risk of inventory write-downs would increase if we were to hold large inventories of merchandise that prove to be unpopular. We rely on third parties for some essential business operations and services, and disruptions or failures in service or changes in terms may adversely affect our ability to deliver goods and services to our customers. We currently depend on third parties for important aspects of our business, such as printing, shipping, paper supplies and operation of our e-commerce webpages. We have limited control over these third parties, and we are not their only client. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of these third parties on acceptable commercial terms. Further, we cannot be certain that the quality or cost of products and services that they provide will remain at current levels or the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing may adversely affect our business. Postal rate and other shipping rate increases, as well as increases in paper and printing costs, affect the cost of our order fulfillment and catalog mailings. We rely heavily on discounts in these areas. No assurances can be given that we will continue to receive these discounts and that we will not be subject to increased costs. Any increases in these costs will have a negative impact on earnings to the extent we are unable or do not pass such increases on directly to customers or offset such increases by raising selling prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing and delivery alternatives. We depend on our key personnel to operate our business, and we may not be able to hire enough additional management and other personnel to manage our growth. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could adversely affect our 23 Table of Contents business. Additionally, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate talented management and other highly skilled employees to be successful. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We may be required to collect sales tax on our direct marketing operations. At present, with respect to sales generated in the direct marketing segment by our Alloy and CCS brands, sales tax or other similar taxes on direct shipments of goods to consumers is only collected in states where Alloy or CCS has a physical presence or personal property. With respect to the dELiA*s direct sales, sales or other similar taxes are collected only in states where we have dELiA*s retail stores, another physical presence or personal property. However, various states or foreign countries may seek to impose state sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct mail companies. Additionally, we have been named as a defendant in an action by the Attorney General of the State of Illinois for failure to collect sales tax on purchases made online and from catalogs prior to November 2004. The complaint purportedly was filed on behalf of the State of Illinois under the False Claims Act and the Illinois Whistleblower Reward and Protection Act and seeks unspecified damages and penalties for our alleged failure to collect and remit sales tax on items sold by dELiA*s through its catalogs and website to Illinois residents. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses to such suit, if we lose this suit, we could be held responsible for three times the amount of the unpaid taxes, a fine of $5,000 to $10,000 per violation of the act and attorneys’ fees and costs. Based on our estimates of the amount of unpaid tax on sales to Illinois and our estimates of fines and attorneys’ fees, we could be liable for amounts in excess of $3.5 million. If we are found liable, we would have to pay such amounts out of working capital or with the proceeds of borrowings under our current credit agreement. Other states may take similar action, and we can give no assurance regarding the results of any such action. A successful assertion by one or more states that we or one or more of our subsidiaries should have collected or be collecting sales taxes on the direct sale of our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Legal Proceedings.” We could face liability from, or our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected by, government and private actions concerning personally identifiable data, including privacy. Our direct marketing business is subject to federal and state regulations regarding the collection, maintenance and disclosure of personally identifiable information we collect and maintain in our databases. If we do not comply, we could become subject to liability. While these provisions do not currently unduly restrict our ability to operate our business, if those regulations become more restrictive, they could adversely affect our business. In addition, laws or regulations that could impair our ability to collect and use user names and other information on the e-commerce webpages may adversely affect our business. For example, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1999 (“COPPA”) currently limits our ability to collect personal information from website visitors who may be under age 13. Further, claims could also be based on other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. If we violate any of these laws, we could face civil penalties. In addition, the attorneys general of various states review company websites and their privacy policies from time to time. In particular, an attorney general may examine such privacy policies to assure that the policies overtly and explicitly inform users of the manner in which the information they provide will be used and disclosed by the company. If one or more attorneys general were to determine that our privacy policies fail to conform with state law, we also could face fines or civil penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. We could face liability for information displayed in our catalogs or displayed on or accessible via our e-commerce webpages and our other websites. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on other theories relating to the information we publish in any of our catalogs, on our e-commerce webpages and on any of our other websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against similar 24 Table of Contents companies in the past. Based upon links we provide to third-party websites, we could also be subjected to claims based upon online content we do not control that is accessible from our e-commerce webpages. We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers’ personal information. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties or our employee’s improper access to our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuse of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies have been investigating various internet companies regarding their use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We rely on encryption and authentification technology licensed form third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptology or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brands. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to prevent security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brands and cause our sales to decline. Restrictions and covenants in our existing credit facility limit our ability to take certain actions and impose consequences in the event of failure to comply. Our existing credit facility with Wells Fargo contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to: • borrow money; • use assets as security in other borrowings or transactions; • pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase any shares of our capital stock; • sell assets; • engage in new lines of business; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • make certain investments or acquisitions. In addition, our existing credit facility further requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and meet certain financial tests, and restricts our ability to make capital expenditures. These financial covenants affect our operating flexibility by, among other things, restricting our ability to incur expenses and indebtedness that could be used to grow our business, as well as to fund general corporate activities. With the Spinoff complete, we are now in the process of renegotiating certain aspects of our existing credit facility. We may not be able to enter into acceptable modifications to the credit facility and the terms of such modifications may impose additional limitations and restrictions on the conduct of our business. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to service our debt and meet our cash requirements depends on many factors. We currently anticipate that operating revenue, cash on hand, the net proceeds from the private placement and rights offering, proceeds for the cash true up with Alloy, Inc. and funds available for borrowing under our existing credit agreement will be sufficient to cover our operating expenses, including cash requirements in connection with our operations, our near term retail store expansion plan and our debt service requirements, through at least the next twelve months. If we do not meet our targets for revenue growth, however, or if the costs associated with our retail store expansion plan exceed our expectations, our current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet our cash requirements. We may fail to meet our targets for revenue growth for a variety of reasons, including: • decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions; • higher energy prices causing a decreased level in disposable income; • weakness in the teenage market; • increased competition from our competitors; and • because our marketing and expansion plans are not as successful as we anticipate. Additionally, if demand for our products decreases or our retail store expansion plan does not produce the desired sales increases, such developments could reduce our operating revenues and could adversely affect our ability to comply with certain financial covenants under our existing credit facility. If such funds are insufficient to cover our expenses, we could be required to adopt one or more alternatives listed below. For example, we could be required to: • delay the implementation of or revise certain aspects of our retail store expansion plan; • reduce or delay other capital spending; • sell additional equity or debt securities; • sell assets or operations; • restructure our indebtedness; and/or • reduce other discretionary spending. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to grow our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions because of (i) a variety of commercial or market factors, (ii) constraints in our credit facility, (iii) market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt offering, or (iv) because the transactions may not be permitted under the terms of our debt instruments then in effect because of restrictions on the incurrence of such debt, incurrence of liens, asset dispositions and related party transactions. In addition, such actions, if taken, may not enable us to satisfy our cash requirements if the actions do not generate a sufficient amount of additional capital. Because we are required to provide letters of credit to lenders of many of our vendors, the amounts available for us to borrow under our credit facility is reduced. The credit extended by these factors often is collateralized by standby letters of credit, which we are required to provide and which we currently obtain under our existing credit facility with Wells Fargo. Any increases in the amount of such letters of credit required by such factors reduces dollar-for-dollar the amount we are able to borrow under our credit facility. Any increase in our vendors’ use of factors or decrease in the amount of credit extended by these factors could require us to provide additional standby letters of credit, thereby reducing further the available line of credit under our facility with Wells Fargo. Any such decreases could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, including funding our retail store expansion program or could require us to reduce other discretionary spending, such as on advertising. Any such event could result in reduced sales. 26 Table of Contents Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks, or the inability for us to continue to use any current trademarks, could diminish the value of our brands and have a negative impact on our business. We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, with respect to certain Alloy and CCS trademarks and servicemarks, we and Alloy, have become joint owners by assignment of such trademarks and servicemarks. We have agreed that we and Alloy, Inc. have filed instruments with the PTO to request that the PTO divide these jointly owned trademarks and servicemarks between us such that we each would own the registrations for those trademarks and servicemarks for the registration classes covering the goods and services applicable to our respective businesses. We cannot make assurances that the PTO will grant such request, and in such event we would need to enter into long-term agreements with Alloy, Inc., regarding our respective use of those trademarks and servicemarks. We may have a more difficult time enforcing our rights arising out of any breach by Alloy, Inc., of any such agreement, than we would enforcing an infringement of our trademarks were the PTO to grant the requested division. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Spinoff We may have potential business conflicts with Alloy, Inc. with respect to our past and ongoing relationships. Potential business conflicts may arise between Alloy, Inc. and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, pending litigation, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Alloy, Inc.; • intellectual property matters; • joint database ownership and management; • employee recruiting and retention; • sales by Alloy, Inc. of all or any portion of its assets to another party, or merger or consolidation of Alloy, Inc. with another party, which could be to or with one of our competitors; and • the nature, quantity, quality, time of delivery and pricing of services we supply to each other under our various agreements with Alloy, Inc. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts. Even if we do so, however, because Alloy, Inc. will be performing a number of services and functions for us, they will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. If the Spinoff is determined to be a taxable transaction, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. The Spinoff was conditioned upon receipt by Alloy, Inc. of an opinion from Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, special tax counsel to Alloy, Inc., substantially to the effect that the Spinoff should qualify as a tax-free spin-off to Alloy, Inc. and to Alloy, Inc.’s common stockholders under the tax-free spin-off provisions of the Tax Code. No rulings have been requested with respect to these matters and the opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts. Additionally, the opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges 27 Table of Contents LLP is based on various representations and assumptions described therein. The opinion is based on current provisions of the Tax Code, regulations proposed or promulgated thereunder, judicial decisions relating thereto and current rulings and administrative pronouncements of the Internal Revenue Service, all of which are subject to change. There are numerous requirements that must be satisfied in order for the Spinoff to be accorded tax-free treatment under the Tax Code. Due to the inherently factual and subjective nature of certain of these requirements, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP was unable to render an unqualified opinion as to the tax-free nature of the Spinoff. In addition, the opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP was subject to certain factual representations and assumptions. If these factual representations and assumptions prove to be incorrect in any respect, the opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP could not be relied upon. Although we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the representations made by Alloy, Inc. or us or the assumptions on which the opinion was based to be incorrect, no assurance can be given in this regard. If, notwithstanding the opinion, the Spinoff is determined to be a taxable distribution, Alloy, Inc. would be subject to tax to the extent that the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the adjusted tax basis of Alloy, Inc. in our common stock at the time of the distribution. Pursuant to the terms of a tax separation agreement entered into between Alloy, Inc. and us, this tax would be shared equally by Alloy, Inc. and us, except to the extent that the tax was incurred as a result of actions taken in breach of our respective agreements under the tax separation agreement with each other or as a result of certain actions taken by our respective stockholders after the Spinoff. If we are required to make this payment and the amount is significant, the payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have agreed to certain restrictions that are intended to preserve the tax-free status of the Spinoff. We may take certain actions otherwise prohibited by these covenants if we deliver to Alloy, Inc. a private letter ruling from the IRS or an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, in either case, reasonably acceptable to Alloy, Inc., to the effect that such action would not jeopardize the tax-free status of the Spinoff. These covenants include restrictions on our ability to: • issue or sell stock or otherwise be a party to any transaction relating to our stock or other securities (including securities convertible into our stock); and • sell assets outside the ordinary course of business. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions and may issue their stock to complete acquisitions, expand their product offerings and speed the development of new technology. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. We may be required to pay to Alloy, Inc. a portion of certain deferred taxes that may have been recognized by Alloy, Inc. in the 2002 fiscal year. In the 2002 fiscal year, Alloy, Inc. and its affiliates undertook an internal restructuring of certain of its operations. Although Alloy, Inc. does not believe it to be the case, in connection with this restructuring, Alloy, Inc. and its affiliates may have recognized certain gains that were deferred under the federal income tax consolidated return rules. If any such deferred gains were required to be recognized, certain of such gains would become accelerated as a result of the Spinoff and, depending on the availability of any net operating losses, taxes may be due and payable. The tax opinion of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP regarding the federal income tax consequences of the Spinoff did not address whether Alloy, Inc. was required to recognize any such gain. In connection with the Spinoff, Alloy, Inc. and we entered into a tax separation agreement, which among other things, provides that we would generally be required to pay half of any such taxes. Depending on the amount of any such taxes, our obligation to pay such taxes may materially and adversely affect us. Events subsequent to the Spinoff could result in significant tax liability. Under U.S. federal income tax laws, even if the Spinoff qualifies for tax-free treatment, Alloy, Inc. may nevertheless be subject to tax if acquisitions or issuances of either our common stock or Alloy, Inc. stock following the Spinoff cause the stockholders of Alloy, Inc. to subsequently own less than a majority of the 28 Table of Contents outstanding shares of either Alloy, Inc. or us. In particular, this tax will apply if such issuances or acquisitions occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Spinoff. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of Alloy, Inc. stock or our stock within two years before or after the Spinoff are presumed to be part of such a plan, although this presumption may be rebutted. If the subsequent acquisitions or issuances of either the stock of Alloy, Inc. or our stock triggers this tax, Alloy, Inc. will be subject to tax on the gain that would have resulted from a sale of our stock distributed in the Spinoff. Because of this, pursuant to a tax separation agreement between us and Alloy, Inc., we have agreed that we will not liquidate, dispose of a certain level of our assets within two years of the Spinoff, or take any other action which would cause the Spinoff to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. These limitations on activity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate necessary liquidity or execute other corporate transactions, including restructuring or similar transactions, which could limit the value of our stock. In addition, we are obligated in certain circumstances to indemnify Alloy, Inc. against any losses or expenses incurred by Alloy, Inc. in the event any such tax is imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. If the Spinoff is not a legal dividend, it could be held invalid by a court and harm our financial condition and results of operations. The Spinoff is subject to the provisions of Section 170 of the Delaware general corporate law that requires that dividends be made only out of available surplus. Although we believe that the Spinoff complied with the provisions of Section 170, and have received an opinion from outside counsel to that effect, a court could later determine that the Spinoff was invalid under Delaware law and reverse the transaction. The resulting complications, costs and expenses could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Creditors of Alloy, Inc. at the time of the Spinoff may challenge the Spinoff as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer that could lead a court to void the Spinoff. In order to affect the Spinoff, Alloy, Inc. undertook several corporate restructuring transactions which, along with the Spinoff, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance or transfer laws. If a court in a lawsuit brought by an unpaid creditor, or by a representative of creditors of Alloy, Inc. such as a trustee in bankruptcy, were to find that, among other reasons, at the time of the Spinoff, we or Alloy, Inc.: • was insolvent; • was rendered insolvent by reason of the Spinoff; • was engaged in a business or transaction for which Alloy, Inc.’s or our remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, the court may be asked to void the Spinoff (in whole or in part) as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require that our stockholders return to Alloy, Inc. some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the Spinoff, those assets conveyed to us by Alloy, Inc. in connection with the Spinoff be returned to Alloy, Inc., or that Alloy, Inc. or us to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of its creditors. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing could vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Generally, however, each of Alloy, Inc. and we would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets were less than the amount of its liabilities or if it is generally not paying its debts as they become due. Although we received an opinion from PJSC as to the solvency of each of Alloy, Inc. and us after the Spinoff, and although we believe that neither the Spinoff nor the prior corporate restructuring transactions constituted a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, a court could later void the Spinoff as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Risks Related to our Common Stock You may have difficulty evaluating our business, as our historical financial information may not be representative of what our results of operations would have been if we had been an independent company. Our historical financial statements may not reflect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows that would have been achieved by us had we been operated independently during the periods and as of the 29 Table of Contents dates presented prior to the Spinoff. In particular, because we had significant borrowings from Alloy, Inc., our historical financial statements do not reflect all of the costs to us of borrowing funds as a stand-alone entity. Moreover, our financial statements have only included dELiA*s Corp. results since September, 2003 (the month in which Alloy, Inc. acquired dELiA*s Corp.). The price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. The price of our common stock after the Spinoff may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, it is possible that our future results of operations may be below the expectations of investors and, to the extent our company is followed by securities analysts, the expectations of these analysts. If this occurs, our stock price may decline. Other factors that could affect our stock price include the following: • the perceived prospects of our business and the teenage market as whole; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, if any; • fashion trends; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • actions or announcements by our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • litigation developments; and • changes in general economic or market conditions or other economic factors unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of retail and catalog companies generally and specialty retail and catalog companies in particular have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention. Provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and by-laws may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in the Delaware corporation law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and board of directors oppose. Public stockholders that might wish to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions: • reserving to our board of directors the exclusive right to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on our board of directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors; • authorizing the issuance of up to 24 million shares of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control; • establishing advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; and • generally requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least 70% of the outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, which 30 Table of Contents could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and board of directors. We have a significant number of options outstanding which, if exercised, could dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders and adversely affect earnings per share. As of January 28, 2006, we had outstanding options, of which 2,369,143 were vested, to purchase 6,291,219 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $12.62 per share. From time to time, we may issue additional options to employees, non-employee directors and consultants pursuant to our equity incentive plans. These options generally vest over a four period. Our stockholders will experience dilution as these stock options are exercised. We could be required, under our agreements with Alloy, Inc., to issue a substantial number of shares without receiving any payment. The issuance of these shares could dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders and adversely affect earnings per share. Following the Spinoff we are now obligated to issue on behalf of Alloy, Inc. up to 663,155 additional shares of common stock upon the exercise of the Warrants. We are also obligated to issue up to 4,137,314 additional shares of common stock upon the conversion of the Debentures. We will not receive any payment from Alloy, Inc. or any third party in connection with any conversions of the Debentures. Additionally, although Alloy, Inc. has agreed to pay us a portion of the cash proceeds, if any, it receives from the exercise of any of the Warrants, each of the Warrants permits exercise by a “net exercise” process, under which the exercising holders would not be required to make any cash payment to Alloy, Inc. in connection with the Warrant exercise and instead would be issued a smaller number of shares of our and Alloy, Inc.’s common stock. If the Warrant holders were to exercise their Warrants using this net exercise feature, which is likely, we would not receive any payment in connection with such Warrant exercises. Thus, we may be obligated to issue up to 4,800,469 of additional shares of common stock for which we will receive no payment. If a significant number of additional shares of our common stock are issued following the Spinoff in connection with these exercises and conversions, the equity interests of our existing stockholders would be diluted and our earnings per share will be adversely affected. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. If our common stock does not appreciate in value, or if our common stock loses value, our stockholder may lose some or all of their investment in our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 