ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS When we liquidate, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. When we liquidate our assets, the Liquidation Price will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the historical costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless when we liquidate if the Company does not continue in existence. You will not receive protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are designated for completing a business combination with a target business that had not been identified at the time of the offering, we may be deemed a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because we had net tangible assets in excess of $98,000,000 and filed a Form 8-K with the SEC that included an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from SEC rules such as Rule 419 that are designed to protect investors in blank check companies. Accordingly, our stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of that rule.. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the Liquidation Price received by you could be reduced. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law Sections 280 and 281, upon our liquidation we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of our claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured claims. These amounts must be paid or provided for before we make any distributions to our stockholders. We have expended all of the interest on the trust account available to us for working capital. Although we have sought and continue to seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or if executed, that such waivers will be enforceable or otherwise prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the actual Liquidation Price could be less than the expected Liquidation Price based upon the proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement of the sponsor units placed in the trust account, without taking into account interest earned on the trust account subsequent to our initial public offering, due to claims of such creditors. Considering we are forced to liquidate, Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be personally liable for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of any third party if such third party does not execute a waiver of its rights, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the trust account, but only to the extent any claims made against the trust account and the payment of such debts or obligations actually reduces the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be able to satisfy those obligations. Based on the information in their director and officer questionnaires provided to us in connection with our initial public offering as well as the representations as to each of their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act), we currently believe that Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier are of substantial means and capable of funding their indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we have thus far had all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waive any right, title, interest or claims of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. 8 We have depleted the funds from the interest on the trust account available to us, and do not believe we have sufficient funds for all costs associated with implementing our plan of liquidation as well as payments to any creditors. Although we had issued a promissory note of up to $500,000 to Santa Monica Capital Partners II, LLC, a limited liability company owned by Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier, on January 15, 2009, the loan advances are at the sole discretion of the lender. If there are insufficient funds, creditors will be unpaid, and to the extent that they have not agreed to waive their rights against the assets held in our trust account, may proceed against the trust assets. If such funds are insufficient to cover the costs of our liquidation, Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier have agreed to indemnify us for our out-of-pocket costs associated with such liquidation, excluding any special, indirect or consequential costs, such as litigation, pertaining to such liquidation. We estimate that our total costs and expenses for implementing and completing our stockholder-approved plan of liquidation will be in the range of $50,000 to $75,000. This amount includes all costs and expenses relating to filing of a proxy statement and meeting relating to the approval by our stockholders of our plan of liquidation. Furthermore, creditors may seek to interfere with the distribution of the trust account pursuant to federal or state creditor and bankruptcy laws, which could delay the actual distribution of such funds or reduce the amount ultimately available for distribution to our public stockholders. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Accordingly, the actual per share amount distributed from the trust account to our public stockholders could be significantly less than the expected Liquidation Price, without taking into account interest earned on the trust account subsequent to our initial public offering (net of taxes payable on interest income on the funds in the trust account and interest income of up to $1.6 million on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements, including the costs of our liquidation). Any claims by creditors could cause additional delays in the distribution of trust funds to the public stockholders beyond the time periods required to comply with Delaware General Corporation Law procedures and federal securities laws and regulations. Stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a liquidation. We were not able to complete a business combination within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, or to extend the business combination deadline as proposed in our preliminary proxy filed on March 5, 2009, therefore we will distribute to our public stockholders an amount equal to the amount in the trust account, including (i) all accrued interest, net of income taxes payable on such interest, and (ii) all deferred underwriting discounts and commissions plus any remaining assets. Under Delaware law, creditors of a corporation have a superior right to stockholders in the distribution of assets upon liquidation. Consequently, if the trust account is paid out prior to all creditors being paid on their claims, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. Under Delaware law, the distribution of the trust requires the approval of the holders of a majority of our outstanding stock, without which we will not be able to liquidate, and distribute our assets to our public stockholders. We are currently working on adopting a plan of liquidation and initiating procedures for liquidation. However, pursuant to Delaware law, our liquidation requires the affirmative vote of stockholders owning a majority of our then outstanding common stock. Soliciting the vote of our stockholders will require the preparation of preliminary and definitive proxy statements, which will need to be filed with the SEC and could be subject to its review. This process could take a substantial amount of time ranging from 40 days to several months. As a result, the distribution of our assets to the public stockholders could be subject to a considerable delay. Furthermore, we may need to postpone the stockholders’ meeting, resolicit our stockholders, or amend our plan of liquidation to obtain the required stockholder approval, all of which would further delay the distribution of our assets and result in increased costs. If we are not able to obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders, we will not be able to liquidate and we will not be able to distribute funds from our trust account to holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering, and these funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our liquidation. However, we cannot assure you that our stockholders will approve our liquidation in a timely manner or will ever approve our dissolution. As a result, we cannot provide investors with assurances of a specific timeframe for the distribution. 9 Our initial stockholders currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. The holders of shares of our common stock issued prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, whom we refer to as our initial stockholders, own approximately 22% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital Partners, LLC have agreed that any common stock they acquire in or after our initial public offering will be voted in favor of a business combination that is presented to our public stockholders. Accordingly, shares of common stock acquired by the initial stockholders and Santa Monica Capital Partners, LLC in or after our initial public offering will not have the same voting or conversion rights as our public stockholders with respect to a potential business combination. We may not have sufficient funds to complete our liquidation. As we had depleted the offering proceeds not in trust or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance, we issued an unsecured promissory note to Santa Monica Capital Partners II, LLC, a limited liability company owned by Messrs. Marshall, Brendlinger and Pulier on January 15, 2009. We may not have sufficient funds to complete our liquidation. On January 15, 2009, we issued an unsecured promissory note to Santa Monica Capital Partners II, LLC, for up to $500,000 at a simple rate of interest equal to 10%. Funds advanced are at the sole discretion of the lender. In the event these funds cannot sustain us through the liquidation, we would need to borrow funds from our management team to operate. If we do not have sufficient funds to cover the costs of our liquidation, Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier have agreed to indemnify us for our out-of-pocket costs associated with such liquidation, excluding any special, indirect or consequential costs, such as litigation, pertaining to such liquidation. Vendors who have not waived their right to funds held in the trust account could seek to recover their expenses from the trust account, which could ultimately deplete the trust account and reduce a public stockholder’s current pro rata portion of the trust account upon liquidation. We do not have sufficient funds outside of the trust account to pay our obligations and do not believe we have sufficient funds for all costs associated with implementing our plan of liquidation as well as payments to any creditors. Although we had issued a promissory note of up to $500,000 to Santa Monica Capital Partners II, LLC, a limited liability company owned by Messrs. Brendlinger, Marshall and Pulier, on January 15, 2009, the loan advances are at the sole discretion of the lender. Considering our plan to liquidate, it is possible that vendors that have not waived their right to funds held in the trust account could seek to recover these expenses from the trust account, which could ultimately deplete the trust account and reduce a public stockholder’s current pro rata portion of the trust account upon liquidation. In connection with the IPO, Messrs. Marshall, Brendlinger and Pulier agreed to indemnify us for debts and obligations to vendors that are owed money by us, but only to the extent necessary to ensure that certain liabilities do not reduce funds in the trust account. Therefore, if vendors that have not signed waivers sue the trust account and win their cases, the trust account could be reduced by the amount of the claims and such officers would be required to fulfill his indemnification obligations. To the extent any of such officers fail to fulfill his indemnification obligations, the trust account may be depleted. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we must meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities may increase the difficulty of completing a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the nature of our investments and the issuance of our securities may be subject to various restrictions. In addition, we may be subject to burdensome compliance requirements and may have to: · register as an investment company; · adopt a specific form of corporate structure; and · report, maintain records and adhere to voting, proxy, disclosure and other requirements. 10 We do not believe that our present principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. In this regard, our agreement with the trustee states that proceeds in the trust account will only be invested in “government securities” (as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940) and one or more money market funds, selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or tax exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States and otherwise meeting the conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed to be subject to that Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses. The NYSE Alternext will delist our securities which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on NYSE Alternext, and we have received a notice from the exchange indicating that we are below certain additional continued listing standards. Additionally, if the stockholders approve the continuation in existence of the Company, the Company’s stock will be delisted, in which case it is expected that the securities will be traded on the OTC Bulletin on the Pink Sheets. In response, we had submitted our plan of compliance to NYSE Alternext on March 9, 2009, which set forth our plan to hold an annual shareholder meeting on or about May 15, 2009. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on NYSE Alternext. If NYSE Alternext delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Inapplicable. ITEM 