Item 1A. Risk factors Current economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s results. Current uncertainty arising from the global economic downturn, the prevailing market conditions in the semiconductor industry (including global decreased demand, downward price pressure, excess inventory and unutilized capacity) including the recent disruption in financial and credit markets, pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our and our customers’ products, as well as our commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors, including our lenders. If the current situation continues or worsens significantly, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our continued operations and financial condition. The Company is working to mitigate the potential effects of this downturn through several measures, including implementing a cost reduction plan and exploring measures to obtain funds from additional sources, including exploring potential opportunities for sales or licenses of intellectual property and technology. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient funding from its cost reduction measures or obtain sufficient funds from the other funding sources in a timely manner to allow it to fully mitigate the effect of the existing economic downturn and any potential further deterioration in market conditions and maintain its ongoing activities and continued operations. Risks Related to Jazz’s Business and Industry The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us. Collectively, Jazz’s top two customers accounted for 35% of our revenues in 2008. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Loss or cancellation of business from, significant changes in deliveries to, or decreases in the prices of services sold to, one or more of our key customers has, in the past, significantly reduced Jazz’s revenues for a reporting period and could, in the future, harm its margins, continued operations, financial condition and business. Jazz may not be successful in continuing to add new customers or in securing significant volume from new and existing customers. In order to be successful under its business plan, Jazz needs to continue to add new customers whose products use Jazz’s specialty process technologies and to generate significant revenues from those customers. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be able to attract new customers or generate significant revenues from existing or new customers in the future. Currently none of Jazz’s significant customers has an obligation to purchase a minimum number of wafers from Jazz. The sales cycle for Jazz’s services is long and focuses on securing from new and existing customers commitments to design a specific semiconductor using one of Jazz’s processes, which Jazz defines as a design win. The selection process requires Jazz to invest significant resources as it works with each potential customer, without assurance of achieving a design win or sales to that potential customer. After achieving a design win, we may still experience significant delays in implementing production and generating revenues due to the lengthy development and design cycle. 12 In addition, a customer may decide to put on hold or abandon a product incorporating a design win for one or a combination of reasons such as lack of market demand, budgetary or resource constraints, and development of a superior, competitive product. If Jazz is not successful in adding new customers who use its specialty process technologies, does not secure new design wins with new or existing customers, or does not convert design wins with new and existing customers into revenue generating products, its revenues and results of operations will be harmed. Jazz’s business plan is premised on the increasing use of outsourced foundry services by both fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers for the production of semiconductors using specialty process technologies. Jazz’s business will not be successful if this trend does not continue to develop in the manner we expect. Jazz operates as an independent semiconductor foundry focused primarily on specialty process technologies. Jazz’s business model assumes that demand for these processes within the semiconductor industry will grow and will follow the broader trend towards outsourcing foundry operations. Although the use of foundries is established and growing for standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes, the use of outsourced foundry services for specialty process technologies is less common and may never develop into a significant part of the semiconductor industry. If fabless companies and vertically integrated device manufacturers opt not to, or determine that they cannot, reduce their costs or allocate resources and capital more efficiently by accessing independent specialty foundry capacity, the manufacture of specialty process technologies may not follow the trend of standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes. If the broader trend to outsourced foundry services does not prove applicable to the specialty process technologies that we are focused on, Jazz’s business, results of operations and cash flow will be harmed. If Jazz cannot compete successfully in the highly competitive foundry segment of the semiconductor industry, its business will suffer. Jazz competes internationally and domestically with dedicated foundry service providers such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, United Microelectronics Corporation, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., which, in addition to providing leading edge complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technologies, also have capacity for some specialty process technologies. Jazz also competes with integrated device manufacturers that have internal semiconductor manufacturing capacity or foundry operations, such as IBM. In addition, several new dedicated foundries have commenced operations and may compete directly with Jazz. Many of Jazz’s competitors have higher capacity, longer operating history, longer or more established relationships with their customers, superior research and development capability and greater financial and marketing resources than Jazz. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than Jazz. IBM competes in both the standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor segment and in specialty process technologies. In addition, there are a number of smaller participants in the specialty process arena. In the event, foundries determine to focus their business on these processes, they will compete directly with Jazz in the specialty process market, and such competition could harm Jazz’s business. As Jazz’s competitors continue to increase their manufacturing capacity, there could be an increase in specialty semiconductor capacity during the next several years. As specialty capacity increases there may be more competition and pricing pressure on Jazz’s services, and underutilization of Jazz’s capacity may result. Any significant increase in competition or pricing pressure may erode Jazz’s profit margins, weaken its earnings or increase its losses. In addition, some semiconductor companies have advanced their complementary metal oxide semiconductor designs to 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer or smaller geometries. These smaller geometries may provide the customer with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by Jazz’s specialty process technologies, and may be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Jazz’s specialty processes will therefore compete with these processes for customers and some of Jazz’s potential and existing customers could elect to design these advanced complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes into their next generation products. Jazz is not currently capable, and does not currently plan to become capable, of providing complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes at these smaller geometries. If Jazz’s potential or existing customers choose to design their products using these advanced complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes, Jazz’s business may suffer. Jazz’s ability to compete successfully may depend to some extent upon factors outside of its control, including general industry and economic trends, import and export controls, exchange controls, exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and political developments. If Jazz cannot compete successfully in its industry, its business and results of operations will be harmed. 13 Decreases in demand and average selling price for end-user applications of Jazz’s customers’ products may decrease demand for Jazz’s services and may result in a decrease in its revenues and results of operations. The vast majority of Jazz’s revenues are derived from customers who use its services to produce semiconductors for use in the wireless and high-speed wireline communications, consumer electronics, automotive and industrial end markets. Any significant decrease in the demand for end-user applications within these end markets will also result in decreased demand for Jazz’s customers’ products. Orders from our customers tend to vary significantly as a result of the customer’s inventory levels of electronic systems and semiconductors, changes in end-user demand for that customer’s product, product obsolescence and new product development cycles. If demand for semiconductors manufactured using Jazz’s services decreases, the demand for Jazz’s services will also decrease, which may result in a decrease in Jazz’s revenues and earnings. In addition, the historical and continuing trend of declining average selling prices of end-user applications places pressure on the prices of the components that are incorporated into these end-user applications. If the average selling prices of end-user applications continue to decrease, the pricing pressure on components produced by Jazz for its customers may lead to a reduction of Jazz’s revenues and earnings. If Jazz is not able to continue transitioning its product mix from standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technologies to specialty process technologies, its business and results of operations may be harmed. Since Jazz Semiconductor’s separation from Conexant, it has focused its research and development and marketing efforts primarily on specialty process technologies and adding new customers. These specialty process technologies include advanced analog, radio frequency, high voltage, bipolar and silicon germanium bipolar complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes and double-diffused metal oxide semiconductor processes. We anticipate that any growth in Jazz’s business will primarily result from these technologies. To be competitive, reduce its dependence on standard process technologies and successfully implement its business plan, Jazz will need to continue to derive a significant percentage of its revenues from specialty process technologies. In order to expand and diversify its customer base, Jazz needs to identify and attract customers who will use the specialty process technologies it provides. We cannot assure you that demand for Jazz’s specialty process technologies will increase or that Jazz will be able to attract customers who use them. In addition, because Jazz intends to continue to focus on specialty process technologies, we do not plan to invest in the research and development of more advanced standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes. As standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technologies continue to advance, Jazz will not remain competitive in these process technologies. If Jazz’s current customers switch to another foundry for standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor process technologies and Jazz is unable to increase its revenues from its specialty process technologies, Jazz’s business, results of operations and cash flows will be harmed. Jazz is dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor market, which has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns and overcapacity. A significant or prolonged downturn in this industry would cause Jazz's revenues, earnings and margins to decline, potentially more significantly than declines for integrated device manufacturers, because such manufacturers may reduce their purchases from foundries before reducing their own internal capacity and they may make additional capacity available on a foundry basis. Jazz’s business is dependent upon market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. Downturns in this industry may lead to reduced demand for Jazz’s services, downward pricing pressure and variations in order levels from our customers that may adversely affect Jazz’s revenues and earnings. From time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have aggressively expanded their manufacturing capacity during periods of increased demand, as was the case in 2000. As a result, periods of overcapacity in the semiconductor industry have frequently followed periods of increased demand. During significant downturns in the industry, we believe that most, if not all, integrated device manufacturers that had previously begun purchasing wafer fabrication services from foundries will reduce purchases from such foundries, and many integrated device manufacturers will allocate a portion of their internal capacity to contract production of semiconductor wafers for others, particularly fabless companies that Jazz also targets as customers. Any significant downturn in Jazz’s customers’ markets or in general economic conditions would also likely result in a reduction in demand for Jazz’s services. Any reduction in demand for Jazz’s services may force Jazz to operate at significantly less than full capacity or idle its fab for a period of time. This would reduce our margins and harm Jazz’s continued operations and financial condition. Jazz has experienced cumulative net losses and it may not be able to be profitable. Jazz has incurred cumulative net losses through December 31, 2008. While Jazz achieved net income for some quarters, it has predominantly incurred net losses in its reported results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 14 Jazz’s historical financial performance may not be indicative of its future results. Since Jazz Semiconductor’s inception, a large percentage of its revenues have primarily been derived from products manufactured using standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes that are no longer the focus of its business. As customers design their next generation products for smaller geometry complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes, they may look to other foundries to provide their requisite manufacturing capacity. As a result, it is unlikely that Jazz will continue to generate the same level of revenues from its standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes in the future as it shifts its focus and operations to its more specialized processes: advanced analog, radio frequency, high voltage, bipolar and silicon germanium bipolar complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes and double-diffused metal oxide semiconductor processes. We expect Jazz’s operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, which may make it difficult to predict Jazz’s future performance. Jazz’s revenues, expenses and results of operations are difficult to predict, have varied significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond Jazz’s control. A significant portion of Jazz’s overall costs are fixed, so reductions in demand for its services or changes in the mix of products towards standard complementary metal oxide semiconductor products, which typically have lower selling prices, or a greater weighting of revenues from lower margin customers and products, can have a negative effect on Jazz’s results of operations, as Jazz has limited ability to reduce costs to respond to revenue declines. We expect fluctuations in Jazz’s revenues, expenses and results of operations to continue for a number of reasons, including: — the level of utilization and yield of Jazz's manufacturing facility; — slow or negative growth in the markets served by Jazz's customers; — the loss of a key customer or a significant portion of its business; — the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by Jazz’s customers, the deferral of shipment of Jazz’s finished products to customers, or the failure of customers to pay Jazz in a timely manner; — unanticipated delays or problems in introducing new products by Jazz or its customers; — shifts by integrated device manufacturers between internal and outsourced production; — Jazz's or its competitors' new product, service or technological offerings; — changes in Jazz's pricing policies or the pricing policies of its competitors; — the mix of process technologies used at Jazz's and its manufacturing suppliers' facilities; — rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures, or actual capital expenditures exceeding planned capital expenditures; — costs related to possible acquisitions of technologies or businesses; — customer concessions, or returns of wafers due to quality or reliability issues; and — changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond Jazz’s control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparisons to predict Jazz’s future financial performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm Jazz’s continued operations, business and financial condition. Most of Jazz’s customers do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for Jazz to predict its future revenues, adjust production costs and allocate capacity efficiently on a timely basis. Most of Jazz’s customers generally place purchase orders only three to four months before shipment. We cannot assure you that any of Jazz’s customers will continue to place orders with Jazz in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. Most of Jazz’s customers are also generally able to cancel or delay the delivery of orders on short notice. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, Jazz’s customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, Jazz does not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of significant backlog and the limited certainty of customer orders can make it difficult for Jazz to forecast its revenues in future periods and allocate its capacity efficiently. Moreover, Jazz’s expense levels are based in part on its expectations of future revenues, and Jazz may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. 15 Jazz’s ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends significantly on its ability to obtain high capacity utilization and fab yields at its Newport Beach, California fab. Jazz’s ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends significantly on its ability to: — obtain high capacity utilization at its Newport Beach, California fab, which is measured by the level of its production activity in relation to its available production capacity; — continuously maintain and improve its fab yield, which is the number of wafers completed that meet certain acceptance criteria, expressed as a percentage of total wafers started; and — continuously maintain and improve its manufacturing yield, which is the percentage of functioning die on a wafer, expressed as a percentage of total die per wafer. During periods of lower capacity utilization, fab yield and manufacturing yield, Jazz manufactures and sells fewer wafers over which to allocate its fixed costs. Because a large percentage of its costs are fixed, this can significantly and adversely affect Jazz’s gross margins and its ability to achieve and maintain profitability. While high capacity utilization rates are a significant contributor to Jazz’s ability to achieve profitability, numerous other factors also affect its operating results and its ability to achieve profitability. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that if Jazz achieves high capacity utilization rates it will be profitable. Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab yields and manufacturing yields also directly affect its ability to attract and retain customers, as well as the price of its services. If Jazz is unable to continuously maintain or improve its yields, Jazz may lose existing customers and be unable to attract new customers, its margins may substantially decline and its business and results of operations may be harmed. Jazz may not be able independently to develop or secure on commercially reasonable terms critical process technology, which may result in its loss of customers and market share and may cause Jazz to incur an investment obligation or give up rights. Enhancing its manufacturing process technologies is critical to Jazz’s ability to provide services for its customers. The semiconductor industry and the process technologies used are constantly changing. If Jazz does not anticipate these changes in process technologies and rapidly develop innovative technologies, or secure on commercially reasonable terms the rights to use critical process technology developed by others, it may not be able to provide specialty foundry services on competitive terms. If Jazz is unable to maintain the ability to provide specialty foundry services on competitive terms, some of its customers may use the services of its competitors instead of Jazz’s services. In addition, Jazz’s research and development efforts are focused primarily on upgrading its specialty process technologies and developing advanced specialty process technologies for new applications. Many other foundries continue to invest significant amounts in the research and development of standard process technologies. For example, some foundries have developed standard process technologies of 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer or smaller geometries that may provide customers with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by Jazz’s specialty process technologies, and may be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Jazz is not currently capable, and does not currently plan to become capable, of providing complementary metal oxide semiconductor processes at 90 nanometer or smaller geometries. As a result, Jazz expects that it will need to offer, on an ongoing basis, increasingly advanced and cost-effective specialty process technologies prior to these or comparable technologies and processes being offered by its competitors. If Jazz is unable to continue transitioning its product mix from standard process technologies to specialty process technologies and its standard process technologies are unable to compete in the marketplace, Jazz will lose market share and its revenues are likely to decline. Jazz may decide to expand its manufacturing capacity, which may strain its resources and increase its operating expenses, and if Jazz expands its business through acquisitions or strategic relationships it may not be able to integrate them successfully in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner. Jazz’s success depends on its ability to expand its operating capacity and to enhance its process technologies in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Jazz may expand its capacity and enhance its process technologies, both domestically and internationally, through internal growth, strategic relationships or acquisitions. As Jazz expands its capacity, broadens its customer base or increases the breadth of specialty process technologies that it offers, its management resources may become constrained, it may not adequately be able to service its customers and its business may be harmed. We may determine that it is necessary to grow Jazz’s business through acquisitions and strategic relationships. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be successful in reaching agreements to acquire other businesses or to enter into strategic relationships or, if such agreements are reached, that their terms will be favorable to Jazz. Even if Jazz completes acquisitions or enters into strategic relationships it may not be successful in integrating the acquisition or adapting its business to the strategic relationship. Integrating any business or technology Jazz acquires could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt its ongoing business and distract its management. If Jazz is unable to integrate any acquired businesses or technologies effectively, its business will suffer. We also expect that any expansion of Jazz’s business will strain its systems and operational and financial controls. In addition, Jazz is likely to incur significantly higher operating costs. To manage its growth effectively, Jazz must continue to improve and expand its systems and controls. If it fails to do so, Jazz’s growth will be limited. If Jazz fails to effectively manage its planned expansion of operations, its business and results of operations may be harmed. 16 If Jazz fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, it may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenues and incur costly litigation to protect its rights. Jazz depends in part on patents and other intellectual property rights covering its design and manufacturing processes. Jazz holds patents and patent licenses and it intends to continue to seek patents on its inventions relating to product designs and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, however, and we cannot guarantee that all of Jazz’s currently pending or future applications will result in issued patents. Even if patents are issued, they may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Because patent and other intellectual property litigation is costly and unpredictable, Jazz’s attempts to protect its rights or to defend itself against claims made by others could impose high costs and risks on its business. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm Jazz’s business and results of operations. A portion of Jazz’s intellectual property is also used by its manufacturing suppliers in China, a country in which Jazz currently has no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for Jazz to protect its intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater risk for Jazz as Jazz seeks to increase its use of manufacturing capacity in China, which provides less protection for intellectual property than does the United States. Jazz’s inability to enforce its intellectual property rights, and the inability of its manufacturing suppliers to enforce their intellectual property rights in some countries, especially China, may harm Jazz’s business and results of operations. If Jazz is subject to a protracted infringement claim or one that results in significant damage awards, its results of operations may be adversely affected. Jazz’s ability to compete successfully depends on its ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Jazz has no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States until they are either published or granted. Due to the complexity of the technology used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent, trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property rights. It is common for patent owners to assert their patents against semiconductor manufacturers. From time to time Jazz receives communications from third parties asserting that their patents cover certain of Jazz’s technologies and alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We expect that Jazz will continue to receive such communications in the future. As a result, Jazz engages in discussions from time to time concerning the licensing of third party technology or cross-licensing such technology and its technology. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be successful in reaching agreements to license or cross-license a third party’s intellectual property or, if such agreements are reached, that their terms will be favorable to Jazz. In the event any third party were to make a successful claim against Jazz or its customers that Jazz or its customers have misappropriated their trade secrets or infringed on their patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, Jazz or its customers could be required to: — seek to acquire licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; — discontinue using certain process technologies, which could cause Jazz to stop manufacturing selling, offering to sell, using or importing certain products; — pay substantial monetary damages; and — seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. In addition, third parties, some of which are potential competitors, may initiate litigation against Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to existing or future materials, processes or equipment. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and the failure or inability to license or independently develop alternative, non-infringing technology on a timely basis by Jazz or its manufacturing suppliers, Jazz may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity or offer competitive products. As a result, Jazz’s product portfolio would be limited, and Jazz would experience increased expenses. 17 Any one of these developments could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on Jazz and hinder its business. Jazz may not have sufficient resources to defend itself or its customers against litigation. If Jazz fails to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could hurt Jazz’s reputation in our industry and prevent Jazz from manufacturing particular products or applying particular process technologies, which could reduce its opportunities to generate revenues. As a result, Jazz’s continued operations, business and financial condition could be significantly harmed. The international nature of Jazz’s business exposes Jazz to financial and regulatory risks. A significant portion of Jazz’s planned manufacturing capacity, as well as its ability to provide assembly and test services through subcontractors, is derived from its international relationships with manufacturers and others, particularly in Asia. In the past, Jazz maintained an office in Asia, and it may in the future seek to expand its global presence by opening additional offices, particularly in Asia and Europe. To date, Jazz does not have significant sales in foreign countries. If Jazz is successful in expanding its global presence, it will be more significantly exposed to risks associated with international operations. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: — political and economic instability, international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; — laws and business practices favoring local companies; — withholding tax obligations on license revenues that Jazz may not be able to offset fully against its U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; — the timing and availability of export licenses and permits; — tariffs and other trade barriers; — difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; — currency exchange risks; — burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; — less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States; and — difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, the United States or foreign countries may implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. The geographical distance between the United States, Asia and Europe also creates a number of logistical and communication challenges. We cannot assure you that Jazz will not experience any serious harm in connection with its international operations. Failure to comply with governmental regulations by Jazz, its manufacturing suppliers or its customers could reduce its sales or require design modifications. The semiconductors Jazz produces and the export of technologies used in its manufacturing processes may be subject to U.S. export control and other regulations as well as various standards established by authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with existing or evolving U.S. or foreign governmental regulation or to obtain timely domestic foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could materially harm Jazz’s business by reducing its production capacity, requiring modifications to its processes that it licenses to its foreign manufacturing suppliers, or requiring too extensive modifications to the products of its customers. Neither Jazz nor its customers may export products using or incorporating controlled technology without obtaining an export license. In addition, if the current economic environment changes and Jazz faces excess demand, it may be dependent on its manufacturing suppliers in China for a significant portion of its planned manufacturing capacity, and export licenses may be required in order for Jazz to transfer technology related to its manufacturing processes to its foreign manufacturing suppliers. These restrictions may make foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their processes and their customers’ products more competitive in the global market than Jazz or its customers. The U.S. government may not approve any pending or future export license requests. In addition, the list of products and countries for which export approval is required, and the regulatory policies with respect thereto, could be revised. 18 Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers in China are subject to extensive government regulation, which can lead to uncertainty. ASMC and HHNEC, which we refer to as Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers, are located in China. In future, when market demand is high, Jazz may rely on ASMC and HHNEC for approximately 10% to 20% of its future manufacturing capacity. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. China’s government has also implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. New regulations or the readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require Jazz and its manufacturing suppliers to change their business plans, increase their costs or limit their ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect Jazz’s business and operating results. In addition, the Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, including Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers and competitors, in order to encourage development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to Jazz or its manufacturing suppliers could adversely affect Jazz’s business and operating results. Jazz depends on key personnel, and Jazz may not be able to retain, hire and integrate sufficient qualified personnel to maintain and expand its business. Jazz’s success depends to a significant extent upon its key senior executives and research and development, engineering, finance, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support and other personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key senior executives or other key personnel could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of Jazz’s business objectives. Jazz does not carry key person insurance on any of its executives or other key personnel. Jazz’s success also depends upon its ability to continue to attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel, particularly engineers and finance personnel. The competition for these employees is intense and we cannot assure you that Jazz will be able to secure the services of enough qualified personnel, or do so at a reasonable cost, for its business to succeed. If Jazz fails to retain, hire, train and integrate qualified employees, it will not be able to maintain and expand its business. A significant portion of Jazz’s workforce is unionized, and its operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions which may disrupt its production and adversely affect the yield of its fab. A significant portion of Jazz’s employees at its Newport Beach, California fab are represented by a union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2009. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on Jazz’s business. We cannot assure you that Jazz will not experience a material work stoppage, strike or other collective action in the future, which may disrupt its production and adversely affect its customer relations and operational results. If Jazz is unable to collaborate successfully with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies to meet its customers’ design needs, its business could be harmed. Jazz has established relationships with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies. Jazz works together with these vendors to develop complete design kits that its customers can use to meet their design needs using Jazz’s process technologies. Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ design needs successfully depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies provided by electronic design automation vendors and design service providers, and on whether Jazz, together with these providers, is able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ needs, and thereby harm Jazz’s business. 19 Risks Related to Jazz’s Manufacturing Jazz’s manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions that can significantly increase its costs and delay product shipments to its customers. Jazz’s manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified to improve fab and manufacturing yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process or defects with respect to equipment or supporting facilities can lower manufacturing yields, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity has increased and process technology has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. From time to time Jazz has experienced production difficulties that have caused delivery delays and quality control problems. In the past, Jazz has encountered manufacturing and related problems, including: — capacity constraints due to changes in product mix; — the delayed delivery or qualification of equipment critical to its production, including steppers and chemical stations; — delays during expansions and upgrades of its clean rooms and other facilities; — difficulties in increasing production at its Newport Beach, California fab and at its manufacturing suppliers; — difficulties in changing or upgrading its process technologies at its Newport Beach, California fab and at its manufacturing suppliers; — raw materials shortages and impurities; — required unscheduled maintenance or repairs; — malfunctions of its wafer production equipment or that of its manufacturing suppliers; and — other operational and engineering problems resulting in reduced product yields for its customers. We cannot guarantee you that Jazz will be able to maintain its efficiency or avoid impurities in the manufacturing process or avoid other manufacturing disruptions in the future, to the same extent as in the past. In addition, we cannot guarantee you that Jazz manufacturing suppliers will not experience production difficulties. If Jazz is unable to obtain raw materials and equipment in a timely manner, its production schedules could be delayed and it may lose customers. Jazz depends on its suppliers of raw materials. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we must obtain from our suppliers, in a timely manner, sufficient quantities of materials at acceptable prices. Although Jazz sources most of its raw materials from several suppliers, it obtains its silicon wafers only from two suppliers, and many of Jazz’s customers have only approved and qualified use of wafers from one of these two suppliers. We believe that qualification of an additional wafer supplier could take from six months to one year. Jazz also uses single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for photomasks and certain photoresists and other chemicals used in its processes. For example, Jazz has only two suppliers of Jazz’s photomasks. We believe it would take between ten and twelve months to qualify a new supplier if these two suppliers were unable or unwilling to continue as a supplier. Jazz does not have long-term contracts with most of its suppliers. From time to time, vendors have extended lead times or limited the supply of required materials to Jazz because of capacity constraints. Consequently, Jazz has at times experienced difficulty in obtaining the quantities of raw materials it needs on a timely basis. From time to time Jazz may reject materials that do not meet its specifications, resulting in a decline in fab yield. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies in a timely manner. If the supply of materials is substantially diminished or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials, Jazz may not be able to obtain raw materials at all or it may be forced to incur additional costs to acquire sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain its operations, which may increase its marginal costs and reduce profitability. Jazz also depends on a limited number of manufacturers and vendors that make and maintain the complex equipment it uses in its manufacturing processes. Jazz relies on these manufacturers and vendors to improve its technology to meet its customers’ demands as technology improves. In periods of volatile market demand or with respect to the procurement of unique tools, the lead times from order to delivery of this equipment can be as long as six to 12 months. Following delivery, installation and qualification of its processes on this equipment can also be time consuming and difficult. If there are delays in the delivery, installation or qualification of equipment, it could cause Jazz to delay its introduction of new manufacturing capacity or process technologies and delay product deliveries, which may result in the loss of customers and revenues. 20 At times when market demand is high, Jazz may rely on ASMC and HHNEC, manufacturing suppliers over whom it has limited control, for a significant portion of its future manufacturing capacity, and these manufacturing suppliers may not deliver sufficient production capacity or quality to allow Jazz to meet its customers’ needs. Jazz operates one semiconductor fabrication facility in Newport Beach, California, in which it currently produces the majority of its products. Jazz has entered into manufacturing supply agreements with ASMC and HHNEC that are designed to allow it to utilize production capacity at two additional fabrication facilities in China. Jazz expects to use its Newport Beach, California fab to develop and implement new specialty process technologies required to meet the needs of its customers, and to use the foundry capacity of ASMC and HHNEC to support higher volume production for its customers once process implementation and part qualification are complete. Jazz is dependent on these arrangements to achieve the capacity levels needed for its business to continue to grow. However, Jazz has limited control over ASMC’s and HHNEC’s production and quality control systems, and these companies have limited manufacturing experience using Jazz’s specialty process technologies. Jazz relies on its third-party manufacturers to implement successfully its specialty process technologies at their facilities. This has in the past, and may in the future, require more time than Jazz anticipates. Jazz is aware of certain instances where the yield of product produced by ASMC and HHNEC has been below that of Jazz’s Newport Beach fab, although still sufficient to meet customers’ demands. While these suppliers have substantially met its requests for wafers to date, if Jazz had a sudden significant increase in demand for their services, it is possible that they would not be able to satisfy Jazz’s increased demand in the short term and from time to time they may be unable to provide all of the manufacturing capacity Jazz may desire to utilize, including amounts that are within the capacity they have contractually agreed to provide Jazz. Should Jazz fail to maintain and expand its manufacturing supply agreements or fail to implement its specialty processes at a manufacturing supplier’s facility in a timely manner, or if its manufacturing suppliers do not continue to deliver the capacity that it requires in a timely manner or do not produce wafers to specifications and at costs acceptable to its customers, Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ needs could be seriously harmed and its customers may turn to its competitors to satisfy their requirements, causing Jazz to lose significant sources of revenues. If the semiconductor wafers Jazz manufactures are used in defective products, Jazz may be subject to product liability or other claims and its reputation could be harmed. Jazz provides custom manufacturing to its customers who use the semiconductor wafers Jazz manufactures as components in their products sold to end users. If these products are used in defective or malfunctioning products, Jazz could be sued for damages, especially if the defect or malfunction causes physical harm to people. The occurrence of a problem could result in product liability claims as well as a recall of, or safety alert or advisory notice relating to, the product. We cannot assure you that Jazz’s insurance policies will cover specific product liability issues or that they will be adequate to satisfy claims made against Jazz in the future. Also, Jazz may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Jazz’s business, reputation, financial condition and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Jazz occasionally manufactures wafers based on forecasted demand, rather than actual orders from customers. If Jazz’s forecasted demand exceeds actual demand it may have obsolete inventory, which could have a negative impact on its gross margin. Jazz initiates production of a majority of its wafers once it has received an order from a customer. Jazz generally does not carry a significant inventory of finished goods unless it receives a specific customer request or it decides to produce wafers in excess of customer orders, because it forecasts future excess demand and capacity constraints. If Jazz’s forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, it may be left with excess inventory that ultimately becomes obsolete and must be scrapped when it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory could have a negative impact on Jazz’s gross margin and results of operations. Jazz may be subject to risk of loss due to fire because materials it uses in its manufacturing processes are highly flammable, and its insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of its potential losses. Jazz uses highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in its manufacturing processes and may therefore be subject to risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Jazz maintains insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. Jazz’s insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and would not be sufficient to cover all of its potential losses such as the full replacement of its fab. If Jazz’s fab or its manufacturing suppliers’ fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, the time to repair or rebuild the fab would be significant and it would reduce Jazz’s manufacturing capacity, delay the manufacture of its customers’ products, reduce its revenues and profits, cause Jazz to lose important customers and would have a material adverse effect on Jazz’s results of operations. Jazz’s production yields and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab is located in southern California, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, substantially all of Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers’ capacity is located in a geographically concentrated area in China, where disruptions from natural disasters may affect the region. Due to the complex and delicate nature of our manufacturing processes, Jazz and its manufacturing suppliers’ facilities are particularly sensitive to the effects of vibrations associated with even minor earthquakes. Jazz’s business operations depend on its ability to maintain and protect its facilities, computer systems and personnel. We cannot be certain that precautions Jazz has taken to seismically upgrade its fab will be adequate to protect its facilities in the event of a major earthquake, and any resulting damage could seriously disrupt Jazz’s production and result in reduced revenues. Natural disasters could also disrupt Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers’ production, which may lead to disruptions in Jazz’s production and result in reduced revenues to Jazz. 21 Jazz’s production may be interrupted if it cannot maintain sufficient sources of fresh water and electricity. The semiconductor manufacturing process requires extensive amounts of fresh water and a stable source of electricity. Droughts, pipeline interruptions, power interruptions, electricity shortages or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict Jazz’s access to these utilities in the areas in which its fabs are located. In particular, Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab is located in an area that is susceptible to water and electricity shortages. If there is an insufficient supply of fresh water or electricity to satisfy Jazz’s requirements, it may need to limit or delay its production, which could adversely affect its business and operating results. Increases in utility costs would also increase Jazz’s operating expenses. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production and deterioration in Jazz’s fab yield, and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm Jazz’s business. Jazz uses hazardous materials and substances in the manufacturing and testing of products and in the development of its technologies in its research and development laboratories. Jazz is subject to a variety of local, state and federal regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous materials and substances. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in revocation of operating permits, the imposition of substantial fines or penalties on Jazz, interruption of production, alteration of Jazz’s manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations could require Jazz to pay increased fees, acquire expensive pollution control equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Jazz could also be required to incur costs associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination at currently or formerly owned, operated or used sites, or at sites at which its hazardous waste was disposed. Any failure by Jazz to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject Jazz to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability with other parties under certain statutes. The imposition of these liabilities could significantly harm Jazz’s business. Risks Related to Jazz’s Securities after the Merger Outstanding Jazz warrants and convertible notes prior to the merger are exercisable into Tower ordinary shares. The price of Tower’s ordinary shares is volatile. Pursuant to the merger agreement with Tower, (i) each share of Jazz common stock became automatically converted into and represented the right to receive 1.8 ordinary shares of Tower, which is traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange, (ii) each warrant to purchase shares of our common stock which was outstanding immediately prior to the merger became a warrant to purchase 1.8 Tower ordinary shares at an exercise price of $2.78 per Tower ordinary share and (iii) each $1,000 in original principal amount of Jazz convertible notes became convertible into 245.57 Tower ordinary shares, representing an implied conversion price of approximately $4.07 per Tower ordinary share. The price of Tower’s common stock is volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: — actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; — possible dilution and increase in the number of shares eligible for resale due to possible conversions or exercises of convertible securities and warrants; — mergers, consolidations and strategic alliances in the semiconductor industry; — market conditions in the semiconductor industry; — our earnings estimates and those of our publicly held competitors; and — the general state of the stock markets. The semiconductor industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. Tower’s ordinary shares are currently traded at prices lower than the price of Tower’s ordinary shares as of the effective time of the merger on September 19, 2008 and may continue to be traded at such prices or lower. 22 The outstanding convertible notes may be redeemed at a time that is disadvantageous to the holders of the convertible notes. On or after December 31, 2009, we may redeem some or all of our convertible notes for cash at any time at a redemption price equal to par plus accrued and unpaid interest plus a redemption premium equal to 2% in the year beginning December 31, 2009 until December 31, 2010 and 0% thereafter. Redemption of the convertible notes could force the note holders to convert the convertible notes at the then conversion rate at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so or accept the redemption price for the convertible notes. Risk Related to a Dispute between a Jazz Stockholder and that Stockholder’s Lenders On February 1, 2008, we received notice that certain lenders were purporting to foreclose on collateral securing loans made to Acquicor Management LLC, an entity owned in part and controlled by Gilbert F. Amelio, Jazz’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The collateral consists of approximately 2.3 million shares of Jazz common stock owned by Acquicor Management LLC. Acquicor Management LLC subsequently filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California and filed complaints in that court alleging various claims against the lenders. The bankruptcy case was dismissed on October 9, 2008. On October 14, 2008, Acquicor Management LLC filed an action in Superior Court in Orange County, California against the lenders and certain other parties with causes of action for declaratory relief, slander of title and breach of contract. Jazz understands that the dispute between the lenders and Acquicor Management LLC potentially remains unresolved. Jazz was not a party to the bankruptcy case and is not a party to the action in Orange County Superior Court, and we believe that this is a dispute between a stockholder and its lenders that should not involve Jazz. However, no assurances can be given that the dispute will not impact us, either due to diversion of management attention or attempts by the parties to involve Jazz. We have been informed by counsel for Acquicor Management LLC that subpoenas may be served on Jazz and/or certain of its officers and former officers seeking testimony and document production in connection with the Orange County Superior Court proceeding, but to date, no subpoenas have been served. We would intend to defend vigorously any claims against Jazz arising out of this dispute if any claims against Jazz were to be asserted. Risks Relating to Jazz Following the Merger Jazz and Tower expect to enter into a Special Security Agreement with the United States Department of Defense which may limit the synergies and other expected benefits of the merger. In connection with the Company’s aerospace and defense business, its facility security clearance and trusted foundry status, the Company and Tower are working with the Defense Security Service of the United States Department of Defense (“DSS”) to develop an appropriate structure to mitigate any concern of foreign ownership, control or influence over the operations of Jazz specifically relating to protection of classified information and prevention of potential unauthorized access thereto. In order to safeguard classified information, it is expected that the DSS will require adoption of a Special Security Agreement (“SSA”). The SSA may include certain security related restrictions, including restrictions on the composition of the board of directors, the separation of certain employees and operations, as well as restrictions on disclosure of classified information to Tower. The provisions contained in the SSA may also limit the projected synergies and other benefits to be realized from the Merger. There is no assurance when, if at all, an SSA will be reached. There is no assurance that Tower and Jazz will realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the merger, which could adversely affect Jazz’s operations. Tower and Jazz entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will potentially create opportunities to achieve cost savings and revenue synergies from cross sales opportunities and to achieve other synergistic benefits. Delays encountered by Tower and Jazz in the integration process could postpone or lower expectations with regard to revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition of Tower and Jazz. Although Tower and Jazz expect significant benefits to result from the merger, there can be no assurance that each of Tower and Jazz will actually realize these anticipated benefits or as to the timing of such realization. Achieving the benefits of the merger will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of business enterprises of the size and scope of Tower and Jazz and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that Tower and Jazz will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively affect Jazz’s operations. 23 Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause key employees to resign and may otherwise materially adversely affect the future business and operations of Jazz. Each of Jazz’s and Tower’s success after the merger will depend in part upon the ability of each of Tower and Jazz to retain their respective key employees. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense. Current and prospective employees of Jazz may experience uncertainty about their post-merger roles following the merger. This may materially adversely affect the ability of Jazz to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain following the merger. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that Jazz will be able to attract or retain key employees to the same extent that it has been able to attract or retain employees in the past. Technological innovation is important to each of Tower and Jazz’s success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of these employees is vigorous. Jazz cannot provide assurance that it will be able to attract and retain these employees. If, following the merger, Jazz is unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, Jazz’s competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Jazz has a large amount of debt which could have significant negative consequences. Jazz has a large amount of debt, which could have significant negative consequences. Jazz’s indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 is approximately $155 million, comprised of approximately $128 million par value of convertible notes and $27 million borrowing under the Wachovia line of credit. Said indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: — requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of Jazz's expected cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness; — increasing Jazz's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; — limiting Jazz's ability to obtain additional financing; — limiting Jazz's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it competes; — placing Jazz at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; and/or — affecting Jazz's ability to make interest payments and other required debt service on its indebtedness. Jazz’s business requires a significant amount of cash, and Jazz’s business may be adversely affected if its sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund its operations. The working capital requirements and cash flows of Jazz have historically been, and following the merger continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If Jazz is unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, its business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead Jazz to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: — the level of sales; — the collection of receivables; — the timing and size of capital expenditures; and — the servicing of financing obligations. In order to finance Jazz’s business, Jazz expects to use available cash and existing credit facilities as well as other sources of financing. Jazz cannot provide any assurance that such funding will be available on satisfactory terms. If each of Tower and Jazz were to incur higher levels of debt, this would require a larger proportion of its respective operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on its respective indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave Jazz with insufficient funds to finance its respective operating activities and capital expenditures, which could adversely effect each of their businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 