RISK FACTORS). We believe that our employee relations are excellent. Sustainable Development We have a strong commitment to sustainability. The customers, communities and environment we do business with and in are increasingly influenced by sustainability issues. Most of our businesses already have established practices for recycling, conservation and disposal of hazardous materials. We believe in accountability, doing business ethically and doing the right thing. We remain dedicated to establishing a corporate culture of sustainable development to help ensure that SunGard can continue to take pride in what we do and the way we do it. During 2009, we produced our first Sustainability Report. We have been collecting data since 2008 to establish a baseline carbon footprint. The primary sources of our carbon footprint are the electricity that we use to power our data centers and office facilities and the air travel that we undertake in the course of doing business. SunGard is a large consumer of electricity in our 5,000,000 square feet of data center and operations space. In our Availability Services business, we track and manage our utility bills in the U.S. and have installed Internet meters in the U.K. We track and report our carbon footprint using an environmental management system. For further information, please refer to SunGard’s 2008 Sustainability Report which is available at http://sungard.com/aboutsungard/corporateresponsibility.aspx. We also continued our partnerships with the World Business Council on Sustainable Development, The Green Grid organization and the Corporate Eco-Forum as part of our objective to work with companies across industries to implement best practices. We are a signatory to the Bali, Poznan and Copenhagen communiqués of the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, and we are also partners of the Prince’s Rainforest Project. During 2009, we also participated in the Environmental Defense Fund’s Climate Corps program as part of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts’ Green Portfolio Project. Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain of the matters we discuss in this Report on Form 10-K may constitute forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” or “anticipates” or similar expressions which concern our strategy, plans or intentions. All statements we make relating to estimated and projected earnings, margins, costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates and financial results are forward-looking statements. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make forward-looking public statements concerning our expected future operations and performance and other developments. All of these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual results may differ materially from those we expected. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Some of the factors that we believe could affect our results include: • our high degree of debt-related leverage; • general economic and market conditions; • the condition of the financial services industry, including the effect of any further consolidation among financial services firms; • the integration of acquired businesses, the performance of acquired businesses, and the prospects for future acquisitions; • the effect of war, terrorism, natural disasters or other catastrophic events; • the effect of disruptions to our systems and infrastructure; 11 Table of Contents • the timing and magnitude of software sales; • the timing and scope of technological advances; • customers taking their information availability solutions in-house; • the trend in information availability toward solutions utilizing more dedicated resources; • the market and credit risks associated with clearing broker operations; • the ability to retain and attract customers and key personnel; • risks relating to the foreign countries where we transact business; • the ability to obtain patent protection and avoid patent-related liabilities in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for software and business-method patents; • a material weakness in our internal controls; and • unanticipated changes in our tax provision or the adoption of new tax legislation. The factors described in this paragraph and other factors that may affect our business or future financial results, as and when applicable, are discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including this Report on Form 10-K. We assume no obligation to update any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our debt obligations. As a result of being acquired on August 11, 2005 by a consortium of private equity investment funds, we are highly leveraged and our debt service requirements are significant. Our high degree of debt-related leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • restricting us from making acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures relating to our senior notes due 2013 and 2015 and senior subordinated notes due 2015. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. 12 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes due 2013 and 2015 and senior subordinated notes due 2015 contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, under the senior secured credit agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement and the senior notes due 2014, to the extent required by the indenture governing these notes. If the lenders under the senior secured credit agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes, as well as our unsecured indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Business Our business depends largely on the economy and financial markets, and a slowdown or downturn in the economy or financial markets could adversely affect our business and results of operations. When there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results may suffer for a number of reasons. Customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their IT spending. In addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel IT projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Also, customers with excess IT resources may choose to take their information availability solutions in-house rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. If any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. Because our financial performance tends to lag behind fluctuations in the economy, our recovery from any particular downturn in the economy may not occur until after economic conditions have generally improved. Our business depends to a significant degree on the financial services industry, and a weakening of, or further consolidation in, the financial services industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because our customer base is concentrated in the financial services industry, our business is largely dependent on the health of that industry. When there is a general downturn in the financial services industry, 13 Table of Contents or if our customers in that industry experience financial or business problems, our business and financial results may suffer. If financial services firms continue to consolidate, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. When a customer merges with a firm using its own solution or another vendor’s solution, they could decide to consolidate on a non-SunGard system, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our acquisition program is an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, this program may not be successful and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. There can be no assurance that our acquisition program will continue to be successful. In addition, we may finance any future acquisition with debt, which would increase our overall levels of indebtedness and related interest costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, then our business and financial results may suffer. It is possible that the businesses we have acquired and businesses that we acquire in the future may perform worse than expected, be subject to an adverse litigation outcome or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. If that happens, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: • we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; • we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from our acquisitions; • we may have to write off goodwill or other intangible assets; and • we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities (including assumed liabilities not fully indemnified by the seller) in connection with acquisitions. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates and successfully complete acquisitions, our growth may be adversely affected. Our growth has depended in part on our ability to acquire similar or complementary businesses on favorable terms. This growth strategy is subject to a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and financial results, including: • we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; • we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers, some of whom may have greater resources than us or may be less highly leveraged, or from the possibility of an acquisition target pursuing an initial public offering of its stock; • we may have to incur additional debt to finance future acquisitions as we have done in the past and no assurance can be given as to whether, and on what terms, such additional debt will be available; and • we may find it more difficult or costly to complete acquisitions due to changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations. Catastrophic events may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our business and our profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by a war, terrorist attack, natural disaster or other catastrophe. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by, for example, affecting our customers, the financial markets or the overall economy. The potential for a direct impact is due primarily to our significant investment in our infrastructure. Although we maintain redundant facilities and have contingency plans in place to protect against both man-made and natural threats, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. Despite our preparations, a security breach, criminal 14 Table of Contents act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for customers, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. The same disasters or circumstances that may lead to our customers requiring access to our availability services may negatively impact our own ability to provide such services. Our three largest availability services facilities are particularly important, and a major disruption at one or more of those facilities could disrupt or otherwise impair our ability to provide services to our availability services customers. If any of these events happen, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, our customers may leave, our reputation may be tarnished, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our application service provider systems may be subject to disruptions that could adversely affect our reputation and our business. Our application service provider systems maintain and process confidential data on behalf of our customers, some of which is critical to their business operations. For example, our trading and brokerage and clearance systems maintain account and trading information for our customers and their clients, and our wealth management and insurance systems maintain investor account information for retirement plans, insurance policies and mutual funds. There is no guarantee that the systems and procedures that we maintain to protect against unauthorized access to such information are adequate to protect against all security breaches. If our application service provider systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, our customers could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation and significant business interruption. If that happens, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, our customers may leave, our reputation may be tarnished, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Because the sales cycle for our software is typically lengthy and unpredictable, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. We offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own computers. The customer usually makes a significant up-front payment to license software, which we generally recognize as revenue when the license contract is signed and the software is delivered. The size of the up-front payment often depends on a number of factors that are different for each customer, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. As a result, the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. Thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. Since there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. Rapid changes in technology and our customers’ businesses could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully adapt our products and services to changes in technology and changes in our customers’ businesses. These changes can occur rapidly and at unpredictable intervals and we may not be able to respond adequately. If we do not successfully update and integrate our products and services to adapt to these changes, or if we do not successfully develop new products and services needed by our customers to keep pace with these changes, then our business and financial results may suffer. Our ability to keep up with technology and business changes is subject to a number of risks and we may find it difficult or costly to, among other things: • update our products and services and to develop new products fast enough to meet our customers’ needs; • make some features of our products and services work effectively and securely over the Internet; • integrate more of our FS solutions; 15 Table of Contents • update our products and services to keep pace with business, regulatory and other developments in the financial services industry, where many of our customers operate; and • update our services to keep pace with advancements in hardware, software and telecommunications technology. Some technological changes, such as advancements that have facilitated the ability of our AS customers to develop their own internal solutions, may render some of our products and services less valuable or eventually obsolete. In addition, because of ongoing, rapid technological changes, the useful lives of some technology assets have become shorter and customers are therefore replacing these assets more often. As a result, our customers are increasingly expressing a preference for contracts with shorter terms, which could make our revenue less predictable in the future. Customers taking their information availability solutions in-house may continue to create pressure on our organic revenue growth rate. Our AS solutions allow customers to leverage our significant infrastructure and take advantage of our experience, technology expertise, resource management capabilities and vendor neutrality. Technological advances in recent years have significantly reduced the cost and the complexity of developing in-house solutions. Some customers, especially among the very largest having significant IT resources, prefer to develop and maintain their own in-house availability solutions, which can result in a loss of revenue from those customers. If this trend continues or worsens, there will be continued pressure on our organic revenue growth rate. The trend toward information availability solutions utilizing more single customer dedicated resources likely will lower our overall operating margin rate over time. In the information availability services industry, especially among our more sophisticated customers, there is an increasing preference for solutions that utilize some level of dedicated resources, such as blended advanced recovery services and managed services. The primary reason for this trend is that adding dedicated resources, although more costly, provides greater control, reduces data loss and facilitates quicker responses to business interruptions. Advanced recovery services often result in greater use of dedicated resources with a modest decrease in operating margin rate. Managed services require significant dedicated resources and, therefore, have an appropriately lower operating margin rate. Our brokerage operations are highly regulated and are riskier than our other businesses. Organizations like the Securities and Exchange Commission, Financial Services Authority and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders and suspend or expel a broker/dealer or any of its officers or employees for failures to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage operations. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. Our failure to establish, maintain and enforce proper brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. Regulations affecting the brokerage industry, in particular with respect to active traders, may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution and clearance services provided by our brokerage operations to retail customers, institutional clients (including hedge funds and other broker/dealers), and proprietary traders. These risks include, but are not limited to, customers failing to pay for securities commitments in the marketplace, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution or clearance systems failures. In our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we cannot limit our liability for trading losses even when we are not at fault. As a result we may suffer losses that are disproportionate to the relatively modest profit contributions of this business. 16 Table of Contents We could lose revenue due to “fiscal funding” or “termination for convenience” clauses in certain customer contracts, especially in our HE and PS businesses. Certain of our customer contracts, particularly those with governments, institutions of higher education and school districts, may be partly or completely terminated by the customer due to budget cuts or sometimes for any reason at all. These types of clauses are often called “fiscal funding” or “termination for convenience” clauses. If a customer exercises one of these clauses, the customer would be obligated to pay for the services we performed up to the date of exercise, but would not have to pay for any further services. In addition, governments, institutions of higher education and school districts may require contract terms that differ from our standard terms. While we have not been materially affected by exercises of these clauses in the past or other unusual terms, we may be in the future. If customers that collectively represent a substantial portion of our revenue were to invoke the fiscal funding or termination for convenience clauses of their contracts, our future business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with government regulations in connection with our business or providing technology services to certain financial institutions, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Because we act as a third-party service provider to financial institutions and provide mission-critical applications for many financial institutions that are regulated by one or more member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”), we are subject to examination by the member agencies of the FFIEC. More specifically, we are a Multi-Regional Data Processing Servicer of the FFIEC because we provide mission critical applications for financial institutions from several data centers located in different geographic regions. As a result, the FFIEC conducts periodic reviews of certain of our operations in order to identify existing or potential risks associated with our operations that could adversely affect the financial institutions to whom we provide services, evaluate our risk management systems and controls, and determine our compliance with applicable laws that affect the services we provide to financial institutions. In addition to examining areas such as our management of technology, data integrity, information confidentiality and service availability, the reviews also assess our financial stability. Our incurrence of significant debt in connection with the Transaction increases the risk of an FFIEC agency review determining that our financial stability has been weakened. A sufficiently unfavorable review from the FFIEC could result in our financial institution customers not being allowed to use our technology services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we fail to comply with any regulations applicable to our business, we may be exposed to unexpected liability and/or governmental proceedings, our customers may leave, our reputation may be tarnished, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on business and financial results. If we are unable to retain or attract customers, our business and financial results will be adversely affected. If we are unable to keep existing customers satisfied, sell additional products and services to existing customers or attract new customers, then our business and financial results may suffer. A variety of factors could affect our ability to successfully retain and attract customers, including the level of demand for our products and services, the level of customer spending for information technology, the level of competition from customers that develop their own solutions internally and from other vendors, the quality of our customer service, our ability to update our products and develop new products and services needed by customers, and our ability to integrate and manage acquired businesses. Further, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. Our services revenue, which has been largely recurring in nature, comes from the sale of our products and services under fixed-term contracts. We do not have a unilateral right to extend these contracts when they expire. Revenue from our broker/dealer businesses is not subject to minimum or ongoing contractual commitments on the part of brokerage customers. If 17 Table of Contents customers cancel or refuse to renew their contracts, or if customers reduce the usage levels or asset values under their contracts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we fail to retain key employees, our business may be harmed. Our success depends on the skill, experience and dedication of our employees. If we are unable to retain and attract sufficiently experienced and capable personnel, especially in product development, sales and management, our business and financial results may suffer. For example, if we are unable to retain and attract a sufficient number of skilled technical personnel, our ability to develop high quality products and provide high quality customer service may be impaired. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents. When talented employees leave, we may have difficulty replacing them, and our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and attract the personnel that we need. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. A portion of our revenue is generated outside the United States, primarily from customers located in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe. Over the past few years we have expanded our operations in India and acquired businesses in China and Singapore in an effort to increase our presence throughout Asia Pacific. Because we sell our services outside the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political and cultural climate or economic condition; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; • inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; • trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as Export Administration Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; • the effects of applicable foreign tax law and potentially adverse tax law changes; • significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • longer accounts receivable cycles; • managing a geographically dispersed workforce; and • difficulties associated with repatriating cash in a tax-efficient manner. In foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, certain business practices may exist that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. The private equity firms that acquired the Company (“Sponsors”) control us and may have conflicts of interest with us. Investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors indirectly own, through their ownership in the Parent Companies, a substantial portion of our capital stock. As a result, the Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction regardless of whether noteholders believe that any such transaction is in their own best interests. For example, the Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions or 18 Table of Contents pay dividends that increase the amount of indebtedness that is secured or that is senior to our senior subordinated notes or to sell assets. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies and defend infringement claims, we could lose one of our competitive advantages and our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary products and services and to defend against infringement claims. If we are unable to do so, our business and financial results may suffer. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret law, confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, customers and others, software security measures, and registered copyrights and patents. Despite our efforts to protect the proprietary technology, unauthorized persons may be able to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise use some of our technology. It also is possible that others will develop and market similar or better technology to compete with us. Furthermore, existing patent, copyright and trade secret laws may afford only limited protection, and the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary technology as well as United States law. For these reasons, we may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use. If any of these events happens, there could be a material adverse effect on the value of our proprietary technology and on our business and financial results. In addition, litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. This type of litigation is often costly and time-consuming, with no assurance of success. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Some of our competitors or other third parties may have been more aggressive than us in applying for or obtaining patent protection for innovative proprietary technologies both in the United States and internationally. In addition, we use a limited amount of open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. Because open source software is developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control, allegations of infringement for using open source software are possible. Although we monitor our use and our suppliers’ use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. As a result of all of these factors, there can be no assurance that in the future third parties will not assert infringement claims against us (as they have already done in the past) and preclude us from using a technology in our products or require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us, or force us to engage in costly infringement litigation, which could result in us paying monetary damages or being forced to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Additionally, our licenses and service agreements with our customers generally provide that we will defend and indemnify them for claims against them relating to our alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to our products or services. We might have to defend or indemnify our customers to the extent they are subject to these types of claims. Any of these claims may be difficult and costly to defend and may lead to unfavorable judgments or settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial results. For these reasons, we may find it difficult or costly to add or retain important features in our products and services. 19 Table of Contents Defects, design errors or security flaws in our products could harm our reputation and expose us to potential liability. Most of our products are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. No matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. In our development of updates and enhancements to our products, we may make a major design error that makes the product operate incorrectly or less efficiently. In addition, certain of our products include security features that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of customer data. Despite these security features, our products and systems, and our customers’ systems may be vulnerable to break-ins and similar problems caused by third parties, such as hackers bypassing firewalls and misappropriating confidential information. Such break-ins or other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and those of our customers, subject us to liability and tarnish our reputation. We may need to expend significant capital resources in order to eliminate or work around errors, defects, design errors or security problems. Any one of these problems in our products may result in the loss of or a delay in market acceptance of our products, the diversion of development resources, a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades and damage to our reputation, and in turn may increase service and warranty costs. A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse affect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Further, the complexities of our quarter- and year-end closing processes increase the risk that a weakness in internal controls over financial reporting may go undetected. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Unanticipated changes in our tax provision or the adoption of new tax legislation could affect our profitability or cash flow. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax provision is reasonable, the final determination of our tax liability could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions, which could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax-law amendments in the U.S. and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 