ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Changes in Interest Rates May Hurt our Profits and Asset Values. Our earnings largely depend on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: ·the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and ·the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. While we have taken steps to attempt to reduce our exposure to increases in interest rates, historically our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. Likewise, in a period of falling interest rates, the interest expense paid on our liabilities may not decrease as rapidly as the interest income received on our assets. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Management of Market Risk.” 31 Table of Contents In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers tend to refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2013, the fair value of our total securities portfolio was $67.5 million. The unrealized net loss on securities totaled $937,000 on a pre-tax basis at September 30, 2013. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using models that estimate the change in Magyar Bank’s net interest income over a range of interest rate scenarios. At September 30, 2013, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience a $66,000, or 0.41%, decrease in net interest income in the first year following the change in interest rates, and a $48,000, or 0.30%, decrease in net interest income in the second year following the change in interest rates. At September 30, 2013, in the event of an immediate 100 basis point decrease in interest rates, the model projects that we would experience an $704,000, or 4.41%, decrease in net interest income in the first year following the change in interest rates, and a $868,000, or 5.35%, decrease in net interest income in the second year following the change in interest rates. At September 30, 2013, our available-for-sale securities portfolio totaled $15.8 million, which were all mortgage-backed securities. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of our available-for-sale portfolio decreases, our stockholders’ equity will be adversely affected. Because We Intend to Continue our Emphasis on the Origination of Commercial Business Loans and Commercial Real Estate Loans, Our Lending Risk Has Increased in Recent Years and May Increase in Future Years. At September 30, 2013, our portfolio of commercial business and commercial real estate loans totaled $197.8 million, or 49.5% of our total loans, compared to $178.7 million or 46.0% of our total loans at September 30, 2012 and $157.2 million or 40.8% of our total loans at September 30, 2011. It is our intent to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial business and commercial real estate loans. Commercial business and commercial real estate loans generally have more risk than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. At September 30, 2013, our non-performing loans decreased to $15.6 million from $20.1 million at September 30, 2012. Because the repayment of these loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of these loans has been and may continue to be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Further, these loans typically have larger loan balances, and several of our borrowers have more than one commercial business and commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial business or commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Because we plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these loans, it may be necessary to increase our allowance for loan losses because of the increased credit risk associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. The Financial Sector Continues to Experience An Economic Downturn. A Deterioration of Our Current Non-performing Loans or An Increase In The Number of Non-performing Loans Will Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operations. Virtually all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in New Jersey. At September 30, 2013, loans secured by real estate, including home equity loans and lines of credit, represented 88.5% of our total loans. Both nationally and in the State of New Jersey we are experiencing an economic downturn that is having a significant impact on the prices of real estate and related assets. The residential and commercial real estate sectors have been adversely affected by weakening economic conditions, which may negatively impact our loan portfolio. Troubled debt restructuring and total non-performing assets decreased from $36.0 million at September 30, 2012 to $32.6 million at September 30, 2013. Troubled debt restructuring and total non-performing assets as a percentage of total assets decreased to 6.06% at September 30, 2013 as compared to 7.08% at September 30, 2012. If loans that are currently non-performing further deteriorate or loans that are currently performing become non-performing loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, requiring additions to our allowance, which could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.75% of total loans and 19.2% of total non-performing loans at September 30, 2013. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Based on this review, we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses in our loan portfolio as of September 30, 2013. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Magyar Bank-Competition.” If We Declare Dividends on Our Common Stock, Magyar Bancorp, MHC will be Prohibited From Waiving the Receipt of Dividends by Current Federal Reserve Board Policy, Which May Result in Lower Dividends for All Other Stockholders. The Board of Directors of Magyar Bancorp, Inc. will have the authority to declare dividends on its common stock, subject to statutory and regulatory requirements. So long as Magyar Bancorp, MHC is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, if Magyar Bancorp, Inc. pays dividends to its stockholders, it also will be required to pay dividends to Magyar Bancorp, MHC, unless Magyar Bancorp, MHC is permitted by the Federal Reserve Board to waive the receipt of dividends. The Federal Reserve Board’s current position is to not permit a mutual holding company to waive dividends declared by its subsidiary. Accordingly, because dividends will be required to be paid to Magyar Bancorp, MHC along with all other stockholders, the amount of dividends available for all other shareholders will be less than if Magyar Bancorp, MHC were permitted to waive the receipt of dividends. Magyar Bancorp, MHC Exercises Voting Control Over Magyar Bancorp, Inc.; Public Stockholders Own a Minority Interest. Magyar Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of Magyar Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and, through its Board of Directors, exercises voting control over the outcome of all matters put to a vote of stock holders (including the election of directors), except for matters that require a vote greater than a majority. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of Magyar Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. The same directors and officers who manage Magyar Bancorp, Inc. and Magyar Bank also manage Magyar Bancorp, MHC. In addition, regulatory restrictions applicable to Magyar Bancorp, MHC prohibit the sale of Magyar Bancorp, Inc. unless the mutual holding company first undertakes a second-step conversion. We Operate In A Highly Regulated Environment And May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Laws And Regulations. Magyar Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures Magyar Bank’s deposits. As a bank holding company, Magyar Bancorp, Inc. is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which financial institutions and their holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operations of financial institutions, the classification of assets by financial institutions and the adequacy of financial institutions’ allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on Magyar Bank and Magyar Bancorp, Inc. 33 Table of Contents Magyar Bank’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities, and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on operations. These laws, rules and regulations are frequently changed by legislative and regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, or any other new laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required for smaller reporting companies. 