Item 1A. Risk factors Jazz has a large amount of debt which could have significant negative consequences. Jazz’s indebtedness as of December 31, 2009 is approximately $150.3 million, comprised of approximately $123.3 million par value of convertible notes and $27 million borrowing under the Wachovia line of credit. Said indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: · requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of Jazz's expected cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness; · increasing Jazz's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting Jazz's ability to obtain additional financing; · limiting Jazz's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it competes; · placing Jazz at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; · affecting Jazz's ability to make interest payments and other required debt service on its indebtedness; and/or · enforcement by the lenders under the Wachovia line of credit of their liens against Jazz’s assets in the event of default; · Jazz’s ability to fulfill its debt obligations and other liabilities. 7 To service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us. We will need to refinance or repay amounts outstanding under our convertible notes at or before maturity on December 31, 2011. Our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other cash needs will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that future bo rrowings will be available to us under the credit facilities or from other sources in an amount and on terms and conditions sufficient to enable us to make payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In order to finance our long-term debt and other liabilities and obligations, we continue to explore measures to obtain funds from sources in addition to cash on hand and expected cash flow from our ongoing operations, including sales of assets, including our holdings in HHNEC; issuance of new securities; intellectual property licensing; reductions or delays of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; improving operational efficiencies an d sales; and exploring other alternatives to reduce our debt, including debt refinancing or restructuring. The Wachovia line of credit imposes certain limitations on our ability to repay the convertible notes and/or to incur additional indebtedness without Wachovia’s consent. If we are unable to refinance the convertible notes, and we default on payment of the convertible notes at maturity, such default would trigger a cross default under the Wachovia line of credit, which would permit the lenders to accelerate the obligations thereunder, potentially requiring us to repay or refinance the Wachovia credit line. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the convertible notes and the Wachovia credit line, on commercially reasonable term s, or at all. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding from the financing sources detailed above or other sources in a timely manner to allow us to fully or partially repay our indebtedness. A default by us on any of our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our operations, shareholders' value and the interests of our creditors, and will affect our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and other liabilities. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors which could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: · the level of revenues from our operating activities; · the collection of receivables; · the timing and size of capital expenditures; and · the debt service obligations under our short-term and long-term liabilities. In addition, we may need to devote a significant portion of our operating cash flow to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The use of cash to finance our indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to adequately finance our operating activities and capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our business. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and resulting periodic overcapacity may lead to erosion of sale prices; downward price pressure may seriously harm our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories when demand decreases during a downturn, leading to rapid erosion of average sale prices. We expect this pattern to repeat itself in the future. The overcapacity and downward price pressure characteristic of a prolonged downturn in the semiconductor market may not allow us to operate at a profit, even at full utilization, and could seriously harm our financial results and business. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · The cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets served by our customers; · Changes in the economic conditions of geographical regions where our customers and their markets are located; · Shifts by integrated device manufacturers (IDMs) and customers between internal and outsourced production; 8 · Inventory and supply chain management of our customers; · The loss of a key customer, postponement of an order from a key customer or the rescheduling or cancellation of large orders; · The occurrence of accounts receivables write-offs, failure of a key customer to pay accounts receivables in a timely manner or the financial condition of our customers; · The rescheduling or cancellation of planned capital expenditures; · Our ability to satisfy our customers' demand for quality and timely production; · The timing and volume of orders relative to our available production capacity; · Our ability to obtain raw materials and equipment on a timely and cost-effective basis; · Price erosion in the industry; · Environmental events or industrial accidents such as fires or explosions; · Our susceptibility to intellectual property rights disputes; · Our ability to continue with existing and to enter into new partnerships and technology and supply alliances on mutually beneficial terms; · Actual capital expenditures exceeding planned capital expenditures; · Interest, price index and currency rate fluctuations that were not hedged; · Technological changes and short product life cycles; · Timing for designing and the qualification of new products; and · New accounting rules affecting our results including the accounting treatment of our bank debt, warrants and convertible notes. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our Company, including our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. The lack of a significant backlog resulting from our customers not placing purchase orders far in advance makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, partly due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, since our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter and in the immediately preceding quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the sa me levels as in prior periods. If orders received from our customers differ adversely from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. We occasionally manufacture wafers based on forecasted demand, rather than actual orders from customers. If our forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, we may have obsolete inventory, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We generally do not manufacture wafers unless we receive a customer purchase order. On occasion, we may produce wafers in excess of customer orders based on forecasted customer demand, because we may forecast future excess demand or because of future capacity constraints. If we manufacture more wafers than are actually ordered by customers, we may be left with excess inventory that may ultimately become obsolete and must be scrapped when it cannot be sold. Significant amounts of obsolete inventory could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a consistent basis Jazz has incurred cumulative net losses through December 31, 2009. While Jazz achieved net income for some quarters, including some quarters in 2009, it has predominantly incurred net losses in its reported results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. We cannot assure you that Jazz will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 9 Our sales cycles are typically long and orders received may not meet our expectations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our sales cycles, which we measure from first contact with a customer to first shipment of a product ordered by the customer, vary substantially and may last as long as two years or more, particularly for new technologies. In addition, even after we make initial shipments of prototype products, it may take several more months to reach full production of the product. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. If orders ultimately received differ from our expectations with respect to the product, volume, price or other items, our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations may be adversely affected. font> Demand for our foundry services is dependent on the demand in our customers’ end markets. In order for demand for our wafer fabrication services to increase, the markets for the end products using these services must develop and expand. Because our services may be used in many new applications, it is difficult to forecast demand. If demand is lower than expected, we may have excess capacity, which may adversely affect our financial results. If demand is higher than expected, we may be unable to fill all of the orders we receive, which may result in the loss of customers and revenue. If we do not maintain our current customers and attract additional customers, our business may be adversely affected. Collectively, Jazz’s top two customers accounted for 45% of our revenues in 2009. We expect to continue to receive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. Loss or cancellation of business from, or decreases in the sales volume or sales prices to, our significant customers, or our failure to replace them with other customers, could seriously harm our financial results, revenue and business. Since the sales cycle for our services typically exceeds one year, if our customers order significantly fewer wafers than forecasted, we will have excess capacity that we may not be able to fill within a short period of time, resulting in lower utilizatio n of our facilities. We may have to reduce prices in order to try to sell more wafers in order to utilize the excess capacity. In addition to the revenue loss that could result from unused capacity or lower sales prices, we might have difficulty adjusting our costs to reflect the lower revenue in a timely manner, which could harm our financial results. If we do not maintain and develop our technology processes and services, we will lose customers and may be unable to attract new ones. The semiconductor market is characterized by rapid change, including the following: · rapid technological developments; · evolving industry standards; · changes in customer and product end user requirements; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · short product life cycles with declining prices as products mature. Our ability to maintain our current customer base and attract new customers is dependent in part on our ability to continuously develop and introduce to production advanced specialized manufacturing process technologies and purchase the appropriate equipment. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce these processes to production in a timely manner or at all, or if we are unable to purchase the appropriate equipment required for such processes, we may be unable to maintain our current customer base and may be unable to attract new customers. The semiconductor foundry business is highly competitive; our competitors may have competitive advantages over us. The semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with more than ten independent dedicated foundries, the majority of which are located in Asia-Pacific, including foundries based in Taiwan, China, Korea and Malaysia, and with over 20 integrated semiconductor and end-product manufacturers that allocate a portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. The foundries with which we compete benefit from their close proximity to other companies involved in the design and manufacture of integrated circuits, or ICs. 10 As Jazz’s competitors continue to increase their manufacturing capacity, there could be an increase in specialty semiconductor capacity during the next several years. As specialty capacity increases there may be more competition and pricing pressure on Jazz’s services, and underutilization of Jazz’s capacity may result. Any significant increase in competition or pricing pressure may erode Jazz’s profit margins, weaken its earnings or increase its losses. In addition, some semiconductor companies have advanced their CMOS designs to 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer or smaller geometries. These smaller geometries may provide the customer with performance and integration features that may be comparable to, or exceed, features offered by Jazz’s specialty process technologies, and may be more cost-effective at higher production volumes for certain applications, such as when a large amount of digital content is required in a mixed-signal semiconductor and less analog content is required. Jazz’s specialty processes will therefore compete with these processes for customers and some of Jazz’s potential and existing customers could elect to design these advanced CMOS processes into their next generation products. Jazz is not cu rrently capable, and does not currently plan to become capable, of providing CMOS processes at these smaller geometries. If Jazz’s potential or existing customers choose to design their products using these advanced CMOS processes, Jazz’s business may suffer. In addition, many of our competitors may have one or more of the following competitive advantages over us: · greater manufacturing capacity; · multiple and more advanced manufacturing facilities; · more advanced technological capabilities; · a more diverse and established customer base; · greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources; · a better cost structure; and/or · better operational performance in cycle time and yields. If we do not compete effectively, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we experience difficulty in achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and delivery times as a result of manufacturing problems, our business could be seriously harmed. The process technology for the manufacture of semiconductor wafers is highly complex, requires advanced and costly equipment and is constantly being modified in an effort to improve device yields, product performance and delivery times. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the production process, defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture a wafer and other factors can cause wafers to be rejected or individual semiconductors on specific wafers to be non-functional. We may experience difficulty achieving acceptable device yields, product performance and product delivery times in the future as a result of manufacturing problems. Any of these problems could seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and ability to maintain our operations. If we are unable to purchase equipment and raw materials, we may not be able to manufacture our products in a timely fashion, which may result in a loss of existing and potential new customers. To increase the production capability of our facility and to maintain the quality of production in our facility, we must procure additional equipment. In periods of high market demand, the lead times from order to delivery of manufacturing equipment could be as long as 12 to 18 months. In addition, our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases and various metals, and require large amounts of fresh water and electricity. Manufacturing equipment and raw materials generally are available from several suppliers. In many instances, however, we purchase equipment and raw materials from a single source. Shortages in supplies of manufacturing equipment and raw materials could occur due to an interruption of supply or increased industry de mand. Any such shortages could result in production delays that could result in a loss of existing and potential new customers and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We depend on intellectual property rights of third parties and failure to maintain or acquire licenses could harm our business. We depend on third party intellectual property in order for us to provide certain foundry and design services to our clients. If problems or delays arise with respect to the timely development, quality and provision of such intellectual property to us, the design and production of our customers’ products could be delayed, resulting in underutilization of our capacity. If any of our third party intellectual property vendors goes out of business, liquidates, merges with, or is acquired by, another company that discontinues the vendor’s previous line of business, or if we fail to maintain or acquire licenses to such intellectual property for any other reason, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, license fees and royalties payable under these agreements m ay impact our margins and operating results. 11 Failure to comply with the intellectual property rights of third parties or to defend our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and defending our intellectual property rights. Because of the complexity of the technologies used and the multitude of patents, copyrights and other overlapping intellectual property rights, it is often difficult for semiconductor companies to determine infringement. Therefore, the semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. As described in Item 3 of Part I under the heading “Legal Proceedings,” we are currently a respondent in an International Trade Commission action alleging patent infringement. We have been subject to other intellectual property claims from time to time, some of which have been resolved through license agreements, the terms of which have not had a material effect on our business. Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to be a party to infringement claims in the future. In the event any third party were to assert infringement claims against us or our customers, we may have to consider alternatives including, but not limited to: · negotiating cross-license agreements; · seeking to acquire licenses to the allegedly infringed patents, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · discontinuing use of certain process technologies, architectures, or designs, which could cause us to stop manufacturing certain integrated circuits if we were unable to design around the allegedly infringed patents; · fighting the matter in court and paying substantial monetary damages in the event we lose; or · seeking to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible. Any one or several of these alternatives could place substantial financial and administrative burdens on us and hinder our business. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may also be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us or our customers against claimed infringement of the rights of others. If we fail to obtain certain licenses or if litigation relating to alleged patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. As of December 31, 2009, Jazz had 145 patents in force in the United States and 34 patents in force in foreign countries. Jazz also had 24 pending patent applications in the United States, 12 pending patent applications in foreign countries and no patent pending applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. We intend to continue to file patent applications when appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection may take a long time and be expensive. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. In addition, we cannot assure you tha t other countries in which we market our services and products will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Further, we cannot assure you that we will at all times enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or that courts will uphold our intellectual property rights, or enforce the contractual arrangements that we have entered into to protect our proprietary technology, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. A portion of Jazz’s intellectual property is also used by its manufacturing suppliers in China, a country in which Jazz currently has no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for Jazz to protect its intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater risk for Jazz as Jazz seeks to increase its use of manufacturing capacity in China, which provides less protection for intellectual property than does the United States. Jazz’s inability to enforce its intellectual property rights, and the inability of its manufacturing suppliers to enforce their intellectual property rights in some countri es, especially China, may harm Jazz’s business and results of operations. We could be seriously harmed by failure to comply with environmental regulations. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in Jazz’s production processes. If we fail to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately, or if applicable environmental laws or regulations change in the future, we could be subject to substantial liability or could be required to suspend or adversely modify our manufacturing operations. 12 We are subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We maintain insurance policies to reduce potential losses that may be caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of a fire, and if our insurance proves to be inadequate, it may reduce our manufacturing capacity and revenues. Possible product returns could harm our business. Products manufactured by us may be returned within specified periods if they are defective or otherwise fail to meet customers’ prior agreed upon specifications. Product returns in excess of established provisions, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have made substantial revenue from customers located in Asia-Pacific and in Europe. Because of our international operations, we are vulnerable to the following risks: · we price our products primarily in US dollars; if the Euro, Yen or other currencies weaken relative to the US dollar, our products may be relatively more expensive in these regions, which could result in a decrease in our revenue; · the burdens and costs of compliance with foreign government regulation, as well as compliance with a variety of foreign laws; · general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, international terrorism, potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · natural disasters affecting the countries in which we conduct our business; · imposition of regulatory requirements, tariffs, import and export restrictions and other trade barriers and restrictions including the timing and availability of export licenses and permits; · adverse tax rules and regulations; · weak protection of our intellectual property rights; · delays in product shipments due to local customs restrictions; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, Israel, the United States and foreign countries may implement quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. The geographical distance between Israel, the United States, Asia and Europe also creates a number of logistical and communication challenges. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any serious harm in connection with our international operations. Our business could suffer if we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers, senior managers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of some of these personnel because we may not be able to find and adequately integrate replacement personnel into our operations in a timely manner. We seek to recruit highly qualified personnel and there is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. Competition for personnel may increase significantly in the future as new fabless semiconductor companies as well as new semiconductor manufacturing facilities are established. Our ability to retain existing personnel and attract new personnel is in part dependent on the compensation packages we offer. As demand for qual ified personnel increases, we may be forced to increase the compensation levels and to adjust the cash, equity and other components of compensation we offer our personnel. 13 Economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s results. The global economic downturn that commenced in 2008 and its effect on the semiconductor industry resulted in global decreased demand, downward price pressure, excess inventory and unutilized capacity worldwide which pose a risk to the overall economy that could impact consumer and customer demand for our and our customers’ products, as well as our commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors, including our lenders. While many market analysts and others report signs of recovery, there is no assurance that markets will sufficiently recover from the effect of the downturn. A lack of or slower than expected market recovery may adversely affect the future financial results and position of the Company, including its ability to fulfill its debt obligations and other liabilities. We continue to explore measures to obtain funds from various sources in addition to cash on hand and expected cash flow from our ongoing operations, including sales of assets, including our holdings in HHNEC; issuance of new securities; intellectual property licensing; reductions or delays of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; improving operational efficiencies and sales; and exploring other alternatives to reduce our debt, including debt refinancing or restructuring. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient funding from these or other sources to allow it to have sufficient cash to fulfill its debt obligations and other liabilities and support its growth plans. Jazz’s business plan is premised on the increasing use of outsourced foundry services by both fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers for the production of semiconductors using specialty process technologies. Jazz’s business may not be successful if this trend does not continue to develop in the manner we expect. Jazz operates as an independent semiconductor foundry focused primarily on specialty process technologies. Jazz’s business model assumes that demand for these processes within the semiconductor industry will grow and will follow the broader trend towards outsourcing foundry operations. Although the use of foundries is established and growing for standard CMOS processes, the use of outsourced foundry services for specialty process technologies is less common and may never develop into a significant part of the semiconductor industry. If fabless companies and vertically integrated device manufacturers opt not to, or determine that they cannot, reduce their costs or allocate resources and capital more efficiently by accessing independent specialty foundry capacity, the manufa cture of specialty process technologies may not follow the trend of standard CMOS processes. If the broader trend to outsourced foundry services does not prove applicable to the specialty process technologies that we are focused on, Jazz’s business, results of operations and cash flow may be harmed. If Jazz is not able to continue transitioning its product mix from standard CMOS process technologies to specialty process technologies, its business and results of operations may be harmed. Since Jazz Semiconductor’s separation from Conexant, it has focused its research and development and marketing efforts primarily on specialty process technologies and adding new customers in the specialty field. These specialty process technologies include advanced analog, radio frequency, high voltage, bipolar and silicon germanium bipolar CMOS processes and double-diffused metal oxide semiconductor processes. To be competitive, reduce its dependence on standard process technologies and successfully implement its business plan, Jazz will need to continue to derive a significant percentage of its revenues from specialty process technologies. In order to expand and diversify its customer base, Jazz needs to identify and attract customers who will use the specialty process t echnologies it provides. We cannot assure you that demand for Jazz’s specialty process technologies will increase or that Jazz will be able to attract customers who use them. In addition, because Jazz intends to continue to focus on specialty process technologies, we do not plan to invest in the research and development of more advanced standard CMOS processes. As standard CMOS process technologies continue to advance, Jazz will not remain competitive in these process technologies. If Jazz’s current customers switch to another foundry for standard CMOS process technologies and Jazz is unable to increase its revenues from its specialty process technologies, Jazz’s business, results of operations and cash flows will be harmed. Jazz’s historical financial performance may not be indicative of its future results. Since Jazz Semiconductor’s inception, a large percentage of its revenues have primarily been derived from products manufactured using standard CMOS processes that are no longer the focus of its business. As customers design their next generation products for smaller geometry CMOS processes, they may look to other foundries to provide their requisite manufacturing capacity. As a result, Jazz may not continue to generate the same level of revenues from its standard CMOS processes in the future as it shifts its focus and operations to its more specialized processes: advanced analog, radio frequency, high voltage, bipolar and silicon germanium bipolar CMOS processes and double-diffused metal oxide semiconductor processes. 14 Failure to comply with governmental regulations by Jazz, its manufacturing suppliers or its customers could reduce its sales or require design modifications. The semiconductors Jazz produces and the export of technologies used in its manufacturing processes may be subject to U.S. export control and other regulations as well as various standards established by authorities in other countries. Failure to comply with existing or evolving U.S. or foreign governmental regulation or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could materially harm Jazz’s business by reducing its sales, requiring modifications to its processes that it licenses to its foreign manufacturing suppliers, or requiring too extensive modifications to the products of its customers. Neither Jazz nor its customers may export products using or incorporating controlled technology without obtaining an export license. In addition, when J azz faces excess demand, it may be dependent on its manufacturing suppliers in China for a significant portion of its planned manufacturing capacity, and export licenses may be required in order for Jazz to transfer technology related to its manufacturing processes to its foreign manufacturing suppliers. These restrictions may make foreign competitors facing less stringent controls on their processes and their customers’ products more competitive in the global market than Jazz or its customers. The U.S. government may not approve any pending or future export license requests. In addition, the list of products and countries for which export approval is required, and the regulatory policies with respect thereto, could be revised from time to time. Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers in China are subject to extensive government regulation, which can lead to uncertainty. ASMC and HHNEC, which we refer to as Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers, are located in China. When market demand is high, Jazz may rely on ASMC and HHNEC for an additional approximately 10% to 20% of its manufacturing capacity. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. China’s government has also implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. New regulations or the readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require Jazz and its manufacturing suppliers to change their business plans, increase their costs or limit their ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect Jazz’s business and operating re sults. In addition, the Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, including Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers and competitors, in order to encourage development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time. Any such reduction or elimination of incentives currently provided to Jazz or its manufacturing suppliers could adversely affect Jazz’s business and operating results. A significant portion of Jazz’s workforce is unionized, and its operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages, strikes or other collective actions which may disrupt its production and adversely affect the yield of its fab. A significant portion of Jazz’s employees at its Newport Beach, California fab are represented by a union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2012. We cannot predict the effect that continued union representation or future organizational activities will have on Jazz’s business. We cannot assure you that Jazz will not experience a material work stoppage, strike or other collective action in the future, which may disrupt its production and adversely affect its customer relations and operational results. If Jazz is unable to collaborate successfully with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies to meet its customers’ design needs, its business could be harmed. Jazz has established relationships with electronic design automation vendors and third-party design service companies. Jazz works together with these vendors to develop complete design kits that its customers can use to meet their design needs using Jazz’s process technologies. Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ design needs successfully depends on the availability and quality of the relevant services, tools and technologies provided by electronic design automation vendors and design service providers, and on whether Jazz, together with these providers, is able to meet customers’ schedule and budget requirements. Difficulties or delays in these areas may adversely affect Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ needs, and thereby harm JazzR 17;s business. 15 At times when market demand is high, Jazz may rely on ASMC and HHNEC, manufacturing suppliers over whom it has limited control, for a significant portion of its future manufacturing capacity, and these manufacturing suppliers may not deliver sufficient production capacity or quality to allow Jazz to meet its customers’ needs. Jazz operates one semiconductor fabrication facility in Newport Beach, California, in which it currently produces the majority of its products. Jazz has entered into manufacturing supply agreements with ASMC and HHNEC that are designed to allow it to utilize production capacity at two additional fabrication facilities in China. Jazz expects to use its Newport Beach, California fab to develop and implement new specialty process technologies required to meet the needs of its customers, and to use the foundry capacity of ASMC and HHNEC to support higher volume production for its customers once process implementation and part qualification are complete. Jazz is dependent on these arrangements to achieve the capacity levels needed for its business to continue to grow. However, Jazz h as limited control over ASMC’s and HHNEC’s production and quality control systems, and these companies have limited manufacturing experience using Jazz’s specialty process technologies. Jazz relies on its third-party manufacturers to implement successfully its specialty process technologies at their facilities. This has in the past, and may in the future, require more time than Jazz anticipates. Jazz is aware of certain instances where the yield of products produced by ASMC and HHNEC has been below that of Jazz’s Newport Beach fab, although still sufficient to meet customers’ demands. While these suppliers have substantially met its requests for wafers to date, if Jazz had a sudden significant increase in demand for their services, it is possible that they would not be able to satisfy Jazz’s increased demand in the short term and from time to time they may be unable to provide all of the manufacturing capacity Jazz may desire to utilize, including amounts that are within t he capacity they have contractually agreed to provide Jazz. Should Jazz fail to maintain and expand its manufacturing supply agreements or fail to implement its specialty processes at a manufacturing supplier’s facility in a timely manner, or if its manufacturing suppliers do not continue to deliver the capacity that it requires in a timely manner or do not produce wafers to specifications and at costs acceptable to its customers, Jazz’s ability to meet its customers’ needs could be seriously harmed and its customers may turn to its competitors to satisfy their requirements, causing Jazz to lose significant sources of revenues. If the semiconductor wafers Jazz manufactures are used in defective products, Jazz may be subject to product liability or other claims and its reputation could be harmed. Jazz provides custom manufacturing to its customers who use the semiconductor wafers Jazz manufactures as components in their products sold to end users. If these products are used in defective or malfunctioning products, Jazz could be sued for damages, especially if the defect or malfunction causes physical harm to people. The occurrence of a problem could result in product liability claims as well as a recall of, or safety alert or advisory notice relating to, the product. We cannot assure you that Jazz’s insurance policies will cover specific product liability issues or that they will be adequate to satisfy claims made against Jazz in the future. Also, Jazz may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Product lia bility claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on Jazz’s business, reputation, financial condition and on its ability to attract and retain customers. Jazz’s production yields and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters, particularly earthquakes. Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab is located in southern California, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, substantially all of Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers’ capacity is located in a geographically concentrated area in China, where disruptions from natural disasters may affect the region. Due to the complex and delicate nature of our manufacturing processes, Jazz and its manufacturing suppliers’ facilities are particularly sensitive to the effects of vibrations associated with even minor earthquakes. Jazz’s business operations depend on its ability to maintain and protect its facilities, computer systems and personnel. We cannot be certain that precautions Jazz has taken to seismically upgrade its fab will be adequate to protect its facilities in the event of a major earthquake, and any resulting damage could seriously disrupt Jazz’s production and result in reduced revenues. Natural disasters could also disrupt Jazz’s manufacturing suppliers’ production, which may lead to disruptions in Jazz’s production and result in reduced revenues to Jazz. Jazz’s production may be interrupted if it cannot maintain sufficient sources of fresh water and electricity. The semiconductor manufacturing process requires extensive amounts of fresh water and a stable source of electricity. Droughts, pipeline interruptions, power interruptions, electricity shortages or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict Jazz’s access to these utilities in the area in which its fab is located. In particular, Jazz’s Newport Beach, California fab is located in an area that is susceptible to water and electricity shortages. If there is an insufficient supply of fresh water or electricity to satisfy Jazz’s requirements, it may need to limit or delay its production, which could adversely affect its business and operating results. Increases in utility costs would also increase Jazz’s opera ting expenses. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production, deterioration in Jazz’s fab yield and substantial downtime to reset equipment before resuming production. 16 Outstanding Jazz warrants and convertible notes prior to the Merger are exercisable into Tower ordinary shares. The price of Tower's ordinary shares is volatile. Pursuant to the merger agreement with Tower, (i) each share of Jazz common stock became automatically converted into and represented the right to receive 1.8 ordinary shares of Tower, which is traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange, (ii) each warrant to purchase shares of our common stock which was outstanding immediately prior to the Merger became a warrant to purchase 1.8 Tower ordinary shares at an exercise price of $2.78 per Tower ordinary share and (iii) each $1,000 in original principal amount of Jazz convertible notes became convertible into 245.57 Tower ordinary shares, representing an implied conversion price of approximately $4.07 per Tower ordinary share.The price of Tower's ordinary shares is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; · possible dilution and increase in the number of shares eligible for resale due to possible conversions or exercises of convertible securities and warrants; · mergers, consolidations and strategic alliances in the semiconductor industry; · market conditions in the semiconductor industry; · our earnings estimates and those of our publicly held competitors; and · the general state of the stock markets. The semiconductor industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The outstanding convertible notes may be redeemed at a time that is disadvantageous to the holders of the convertible notes. On or after December 31, 2009, we may redeem some or all of our convertible notes for cash at any time at a redemption price equal to par plus accrued and unpaid interest plus a redemption premium equal to 2% in the year beginning December 31, 2009 until December 31, 2010 and 0% thereafter. Redemption of the convertible notes could force the note holders to convert the convertible notes at the then conversion rate at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so or accept the redemption price for the convertible notes. Risk Related to a Dispute between a Jazz Stockholder and that Stockholder's Lenders On February 1, 2008, we received notice that certain lenders were purporting to foreclose on collateral securing loans made to Acquicor Management LLC, an entity owned in part and controlled by Gilbert F. Amelio, Jazz's former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The collateral consists of approximately 2.3 million shares of Jazz common stock owned by Acquicor Management LLC. Acquicor Management LLC subsequently filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California and filed complaints in that court alleging various claims against the lenders. The bankruptcy case was dismissed on October 9, 2008. On October 14, 2008, Acquicor Management LLC filed an action in Superior Court in Orange County, California against the lenders and certain other parties with causes of action for declaratory relief, slander of title and breach of contract. Jazz understands that the dispute between the lenders and Acquicor Management LLC potentially remains unresolved. Jazz was not a party to the bankruptcy case and is not a party to the action in Orange County Superior Court, and we believe that this is a dispute between a stockholder and its lenders that should not involve Jazz. However, no assurances can be given that the dispute will not impact us, either due to diversion of management attention or attempts by the pa rties to involve Jazz. We have been informed by counsel for Acquicor Management LLC that subpoenas may be served on Jazz and/or certain of its officers and former officers seeking testimony and document production in connection with the Orange County Superior Court proceeding, but to date, no subpoenas have been served. We intend to defend vigorously any claims against Jazz arising out of this dispute if any claims against Jazz were to be asserted. Jazz and Tower expect to enter into a Special Security Agreement with the United States Department of Defense which may limit the synergies and other expected benefits of the Merger. In connection with the Company's aerospace and defense business, its facility security clearance and trusted foundry status, the Company and Tower are working with the Defense Security Service of the United States Department of Defense ("DSS") to develop an appropriate structure to mitigate any concern of foreign ownership, control or influence over the operations of Jazz specifically relating to protection of classified information and prevention of potential unauthorized access thereto. In order to safeguard classified information, it is expected that the DSS will require adoption of a Special Security Agreement ("SSA"). The SSA may include certain security related restrictions, including restrictions on the composition of the board of directors, the separation of certain empl oyees and operations, as well as restrictions on disclosure of classified information to Tower. The provisions contained in the SSA may also limit the projected synergies and other benefits to be realized from the Merger. There is no assurance when, if at all, an SSA will be reached. 17 Risks relating to change in landlord. The Company leases its fabrication facilities and headquarters from Conexant under non-cancelable operating leases through March 2017. In January 2010, Conexant announced that it has agreed to sell those buildings to City Ventures LLC, a residential and mixed-use developer of California urban real estate projects and that Conexant expects the sale to be completed by the end of March 2010. In the event the buildings are sold, the new owner will become the landlord of the properties subject to the terms and conditions of the existing leases. Although the Company does not anticipate that a change in landlord will adversely affect us, the Company does not have any history with or previou s relationship with the prospective buyer of the properties; thus, there is some risk that the Company’s relationship with a new landlord could be more adversarial than the Company’s relationship with Conexant has been. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 