Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in us involves a high degree of risk and may result in the loss of all or part of your investment. You should consider carefully all of the information set out in this document and the risks attaching to an investment in us, including, in particular, the risks described below. The information below does not purport to be an exhaustive list and should be considered in conjunction with the contents of the rest of this document. Risks associated with FutureFuel Chemical Company. The industries in which FutureFuel Chemical Company competes are highly competitive. The oil and gas industry, as well as the chemical business, are highly competitive. There is competition within these industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of industry and individual consumers. FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with other firms in the sale or purchase of various goods or services in many national and international markets. FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than FutureFuel Chemical Company does. In addition, FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis, and the number of these smaller companies is increasing. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. As a result of competition, FutureFuel Chemical Company may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for its products and/or services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although FutureFuel Chemical Company will employ all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes, no assurances can be made that they will be successful. A key component of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position, particularly given the expected commodity-based nature of many of its products, will be its ability to manage expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency. No assurances can be given that FutureFuel Chemical Company will be able to successfully manage such expenses. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors in addition to those that FutureFuel Chemical Company can impact. Natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which FutureFuel Chemical Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could negatively impact FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position and its ability to maintain market share. Increases in the construction of biodiesel production plants may cause excess biodiesel production capacity in the market. Excess capacity may adversely affect the price at which FutureFuel Chemical Company is able to sell the biodiesel that it produces and may also adversely affect our anticipated results of operation and financial condition. In 2005, approximately 75 million gallons of biodiesel were produced in the United States, and in 2006 approximately 250 million gallons were produced. 2007 biodiesel production is estimated between 450-500 million gallons. As of January 25, 2008, there was a reported 2.24 billion gallons per year of biodiesel production capacity in the United States. With such biodiesel production capacity in the United States, compared to historical production levels, there is risk that there will be a significant amount of excess biodiesel production capacity. Although this existing capacity is very large compared to historical production levels, we believe that the market will purchase as much biodiesel as is available, so long as the prices for biodiesel (net of the impact of tax credits and other similar incentives) are competitive with those of petrodiesel. Fluctuations in commodity prices may cause a reduction in the demand or profitability of the products or services FutureFuel Chemical Company produces. Prices for alternative fuels tend to fluctuate widely based on a variety of political and economic factors. These price fluctuations heavily influence the oil and gas industry. Lower energy prices for existing products tend to limit the demand for alternative forms of energy services and related products and infrastructure. Historically, the markets 21 for alternative fuels have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in alternative fuel prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; · the price and/or availability of biodiesel feedstocks; · weather conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline and refining capacity; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it extremely difficult to predict future alternative fuel price movements with any certainty. There may be a decrease in the demand for FutureFuel Chemical Company’s products or services and our profitability could be adversely affected. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials (such as acetic anhydride, pelargonic acid, soybean oil and methanol) for its operations. We have implemented certain risk management tools, such as multiple suppliers and hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material supply and costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which FutureFuel Chemical Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. While temporary shortages of raw materials may occasionally occur, these items have historically been sufficiently available to cover current requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by natural disasters, plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. In addition, as FutureFuel Chemical Company increases its biodiesel capacity, it will require larger supplies of raw materials which have not yet been secured and may not be available for the foregoing reasons, or may be available only at prices higher than current levels. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant upon two customers for a substantial amount of its sales. All sales of the bleach activator are made to The Procter & Gamble Company and all sales of a proprietary herbicide and certain other intermediates used in the production of this herbicide are made to Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation. These two customers represented approximately 63% of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. The contract with The Procter & Gamble Company is set to expire 22 in June 2008 and no assurances can be given that such contract will be extended past June 2008 or, if extended, upon what terms. The contracts with Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation contain certain termination provisions and no assurances can be given that these contracts will not be terminated. The loss of these two companies as customers would have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in technology may render FutureFuel Chemical Company’s products or services obsolete. The alternative fuel and chemical industries may be substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. Examples include competitive product technologies, such as green gasoline and biodiesel produced from catalytic hydroforming of renewable feedstock oils and competitive process technologies such as advanced biodiesel continuous reactor and washing designs that increase throughput. These changes may render obsolete certain existing products, energy sources, services and technologies currently used by FutureFuel Chemical Company. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon by FutureFuel Chemical Company will not be subject to such obsolescence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by FutureFuel Chemical Company to newer technologies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. The oil and gas and chemical industries are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and those associated with compliance and permitting obligations (including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances or waste, or discharges and air and other emissions) as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require FutureFuel Chemical Company to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business segments in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase FutureFuel Chemical Company’s cost of doing business or affect its operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, FutureFuel Chemical Company could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether FutureFuel Chemical Company was responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant and, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels operations may be harmed if the government were to change current laws and regulations. Alternative fuels businesses benefit from tax credits and government subsidies. If any of the state or federal laws and regulations relating to the tax credits and government subsidies change, the ability to recover capital expenditures from an alternative fuels business could be harmed. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels platform is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the application and use of alternative energy products, including those related specifically to biodiesel. For instance, biodiesel products benefit from being the only alternative fuel certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that fulfills the requirements of Section 211(B) of the Clean Air Act. If agency determinations, laws and regulations relating to the application and use of alternative energy are changed, the marketability and sales of biodiesel production could be materially adversely affected. 23 The value of FutureFuel Chemical Company may prove to be less than what we paid for FutureFuel Chemical Company because of uncertainties in evaluating future costs and/or potential liabilities. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of future biofuel prices, operating costs (including the costs of raw goods) and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our due diligence assessment of FutureFuel Chemical Company, we performed a review of FutureFuel Chemical Company and its properties which we believe was generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not have permitted us to become sufficiently familiar with FutureFuel Chemical Company’s properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. As a result of these factors, the value of FutureFuel Chemical Company may ultimately be less than what we agreed to pay for its stock. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to raw goods and distribution markets. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory transportation or the location of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s manufacturing complex from more lucrative markets may hinder FutureFuel Chemical Company’s access to raw goods and/or distribution markets. The availability of a ready market for biodiesel depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of biodiesel and the proximity of the plant to trucking and terminal facilities. The sale of large quantities of biodiesel necessitates that FutureFuel Chemical Company transport its biodiesel to other markets since the Batesville, Arkansas regional market is not expected to absorb all of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s contemplated production. Currently, common carrier pipelines are not transporting biodiesel. This leaves trucks, barges and rail cars as the means of distribution of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s product from the plant to these storage terminals for further distribution. However, the current availability of rail cars is limited and at times unavailable because of repairs or improvements, or as a result of priority transportation agreements with other shippers. Additionally, the current availability of barges is limited, particularly heated barges to transport biodiesel during winter months. If transportation is restricted or is unavailable, FutureFuel Chemical Company may not be able to sell into more lucrative markets and consequently its cash flow from sales of biodiesel could be restricted. The biodiesel industry also faces several challenges to wide biodiesel acceptance, including cold temperature limitations, storage stability, fuel quality standards and exhaust emissions. If the industry does not satisfy consumers that these issues have been resolved or are being resolved, biodiesel may not gain widespread acceptance which may have an adverse impact on FutureFuel Chemical Company’s cash flow from sales of biodiesel. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s insurance may not protect it against its business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate for FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks which cannot be sourced on economic terms. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations (including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage) occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 24 FutureFuel Chemical Company depends on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our future operations. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business will also be dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring or retaining these personnel could prove more difficult to hire or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause FutureFuel Chemical Company to incur greater costs, or prevent it from pursuing its expansion strategy as quickly as it would otherwise wish to do. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of its raw materials or finished goods, FutureFuel Chemical Company may have unexpected losses. We hedge FutureFuel Chemical Company’s raw materials and/or finished products to some degree to manage the commodity price risk of such items. This requires the purchase or sale of commodity futures contracts and/or options on those contracts or similar financial instruments. We may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. If we do not or are not capable of managing the commodity price risk of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s raw materials and/or finished products, FutureFuel Chemical Company may incur losses as a result of price fluctuations with respect to these raw materials and/or finished products. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for its operations, it may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The operation of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s manufacturing plant requires numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. FutureFuel Chemical Company may not be able to obtain all necessary permits (or modifications thereto) and approvals and, as a result, our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary renewal permits (or modifications to existing permits) and approvals for future expansions may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements. The lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. It is possible that we will not consummate more than one business combination with the proceeds from our July 2006 offering and FutureFuel Chemical Company may be the only target business that we acquire. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon FutureFuel Chemical Company. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations of entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is possible that we will not have the resources to diversify effectively our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. FutureFuel Chemical Company has entered into a $50 million revolving credit facility with Regions Bank and we have guaranteed FutureFuel Chemical Company’s obligations thereunder. The restrictions governing this indebtedness (such as total debt to EBITDA limitations) may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to meet its future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance such indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We expect to have capital expenditure requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make capital expenditures for the expansion of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels production capacity and complementary infrastructure. We intend to finance these capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations, borrowings under the credit facility with Regions Bank and 25 existing cash. However, if FutureFuel Chemical Company’s capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete the projected expansions or capitalize on other business opportunities. We may be unable to successfully integrate the FutureFuel Chemical Company acquisition or other future acquisitions with our operations or realize all of the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Separation of FutureFuel Chemical Company from Eastman Chemical Company and integration of FutureFuel Chemical Company with us has been a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate FutureFuel Chemical Company in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: · operating a significantly larger combined organization; · consolidating corporate technological and administrative functions; · integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; and · diverting management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of FutureFuel Chemical Company and other future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher and unexpected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities and fluctuations in markets. If the FutureFuel Chemical Company acquisition benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our shares of common stock may decline. The scope of indemnity protection afforded to us under the acquisition agreement with Eastman Chemical Company is limited. While we are confident that the due diligence process undertaken in relation to FutureFuel Chemical Company was sufficient and that material areas of potential exposure have been discovered, there can be no certainty that all significant exposures were uncovered by the due diligence process and it is unlikely that all existing or potential problems and/or liabilities have been revealed. The inspections that have been performed may not have revealed structural and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination. We were not able to obtain contractual indemnities from Eastman Chemical Company for all liabilities that were created by Eastman Chemical Company or FutureFuel Chemical Company prior to the completion of the acquisition of FutureFuel Chemical Company and have only limited indemnity protection under the acquisition agreement with Eastman Chemical Company. As part of such acquisition agreement, we, through FutureFuel Chemical Company, assumed the risk of the physical condition of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with expectations, as well as certain environmental and other unknown liabilities in excess of certain amounts. If any such exposures materialize or the information provided as part of the due diligence exercise proves to be untrue or inaccurate, we will have to rely on the limited indemnity protection afforded to us under the acquisition agreement in order to seek compensation for any financial loss incurred as a result. By its nature, indemnity protection is limited in scope, being the product of a negotiation exercise between us and Eastman Chemical Company, and therefore we may not recover any or sufficient funds fully to cover any loss incurred. In addition, even where potential areas of exposure are covered by the scope of indemnity protection provided under the acquisition agreement, there is no guarantee that Eastman Chemical Company will be in a financial position to support the level of indemnification for which it may be liable. Consequently, we may not recover any or sufficient funds fully to cover any loss incurred. 26 Risks associated with investing in AIM companies. The market for our shares or warrants is relatively illiquid. Our shares of common stock and warrants currently are traded on AIM and are not listed or traded on any established market in the United States. AIM is a market designed primarily for emerging or smaller companies. The AIM rules are less demanding than those of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and other stock exchanges and also than those under federal securities laws. Neither the London Stock Exchange nor the SEC has approved the contents of this document. The future success of AIM and liquidity in the market for our shares of common stock and warrants cannot be guaranteed. In particular, the market for our shares of common stock and warrants may be, or may become, relatively illiquid and therefore may be or may become difficult to sell. Investment in shares traded on AIM is perceived to carry a higher risk than an investment in shares quoted on exchanges with more stringent listing requirements, such as the London Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Market. This is because AIM imposes less stringent corporate governance and ongoing reporting requirements. AIM is also a new and more flexible market, which requires only semi-annual, rather than quarterly, financial update reports. Investors should be aware that the value of our shares of common stock and warrants may be influenced by many factors, some of which may affect quoted companies generally, including the depth and liquidity of the market, our performance, a large or small volume of trading in our securities, legislative changes and general economic, political or regulatory conditions, and that the prices may be volatile and subject to extensive fluctuations. Therefore, the market price of our shares of common stock and warrants may not reflect the underlying value. The value of an investment in us may increase or decrease; therefore investors may realize less than, or lose all of, their investment. We will not adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards but rather will continue to prepare our financial statements and financial reporting in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. On August 22, 2006, AIM announced that non-European Economic Area companies whose shares are traded on AIM are not required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards for financial reporting purposes but may use, among other things, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles without reconciliation to International Financial Reporting Standards. We are a non-European Economic Area company and have determined that we will prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. International Financial Reporting Standards differ in certain significant respects from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles will not be comparable to financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Risks associated with owning our shares and warrants. Our shares will be represented by definitive certificates which could reduce the liquidity of our shares and warrants. Our shares of common stock are represented by definitive certificates which contain the following legend. Prior to investing in the securities or conducting any transactions in the securities, investors are advised to consult professional advisers regarding the restrictions on transfer summarized below and any other restrictions. This security (or its predecessor) was originally issued in a transaction exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and is a restricted security (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act). This security may not be offered, sold or otherwise transferred in the absence of registration or an applicable exemption therefrom. Hedging transactions involving this security may not be conducted directly or indirectly, unless in compliance with the Securities Act. Each purchaser of this security is hereby notified that the seller of this security may be relying on the 27 exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A or Regulation S thereunder. The holder of this security agrees for the benefit of the Company that (a) this security may be offered, resold, pledged or otherwise transferred, only (i) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (ii) outside of the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (iii) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (iv) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (i) through (iv) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and (b) the holder will, and each subsequent holder is required to, notify any purchaser of this security from it of the resale restrictions referred to in (a) above. The securities represented by this certificate are subject to transfer restrictions which require that in addition to any certifications required from a transferor as set forth on the reverse of this certificate, prior to the expiration of a distribution compliance period of at least one year, the transferee certifies as to whether or not it is a US person within the meaning of Regulation S and provides certain other certifications and agreements. Prior to permitting any transfer, the Company may request an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company that such transfer is to be effected in a transaction meeting the requirements of Regulation S under the Securities Act or is otherwise exempt from registration under the Securities Act. CREST Co., which is the Central Securities Depository for the U.K. markets (including AIM) and which operates the CREST system (CREST Co.’s real-time settlement system for UK and Irish shares and other corporate securities), does not allow electronic settlement on CREST until the legend has been removed and the certification requirements required under U.S. securities laws have expired. As a result, our shares of common stock and warrants must be represented by definitive certificates. In order to transfer or sell our shares or warrants, holders must provide the definitive certificates to the transfer agent, who will require certain certifications as set forth in the legend, and on occasion legal opinions as set forth in the legend, prior to issuing new certificates to new security holders. The lack of a fully electronic settlement mechanism may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and the price of our securities. If our founding shareholders and Mr. Novelly or his designees exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. Those shareholders holding shares of our common stock prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shareholders”; see “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters --Founding Shares Owned by the Founding Shareholders” below for a list of the founding shareholders) and Mr. Paul A. Novelly, our executive chairman of the board, or his designees, are entitled to demand that we register under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), the resale of their shares of our common stock issued prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shares”) and their shares included in the units purchased in our July 2006 offering. The demand may be made at any time after the date on which we have become a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and their founding shares have been released from escrow. Except in limited circumstances, this date will not be before July 12, 2009. If our founding shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of our common stock, there will be an additional 11,250,000 shares and/or up to 5,000,000 shares issued on exercise of their warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. 28 Transfer of our shares and/or warrants, and the exercise of our warrants, are subject to stringent transfer and exercise requirements under the Securities Act. Our shares of common stock and our warrants are subject to the conditions listed under section 903(b)(3) or Category 3 of Regulation S under the Securities Act. Under Category 3, offering restrictions (as defined under Regulation S) had to be in place in connection with our July 2006 offering described below and additional restrictions are imposed on resales of our securities as described elsewhere herein. All of our shares of common stock and our warrants are subject to these restrictions, regardless of whether the purchaser acquired the securities in a transaction pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or in a transaction pursuant to Regulation S. Our shares and warrants are considered “restricted securities” under Rule 144 and will, until the expiration of the applicable holding period with respect to the securities set forth in Rule 144 and the expiration of the one-year compliance period, bear restrictive legends, unless we determine otherwise in compliance with applicable law. The Rule 144 holding period for our shares received upon exercise of our warrants may recommence upon the exercise of such warrants. The Rule 144 holding period for the shares of our common stock received upon exercise of our warrants will start upon the exercise of such warrants. Even though the Rule 144(k) two-year holding period for the shares and warrants may have expired, enabling certificates for those securities to have the legend removed, the Rule 144 holding period for the shares received upon exercise of the warrants will start upon such exercise. Accordingly, holders of our warrants that exercise their warrants for cash will receive shares of our common stock subject to trading restrictions which are greater than those imposed on the trading of previously issued shares. Such restrictions may mean the value of the shares received upon exercise of the warrants may be significantly lower, at least until the two-year holding period has expired, than the shares originally issued. We may not list our common stock or our warrants on a stock exchange other than AIM. Under the investor rights agreement that we entered into on July 12, 2006 with CRT Capital Group LLC and KBC Peel Hunt Ltd, we are obligated to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause our shares of common stock to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed (to the extent applicable) on the American Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the NASD Automated Quotation System or the NASDAQ National Market (or, in each case, a successor thereto) or a similarly recognized national trading platform, if our common stock so qualifies. However, no assurances can be given that our common stock will qualify to be quoted and/or listed on any such exchange or other similarly recognized national trading platform. Further, we have no such obligation with respect to our warrants and no assurances can be given that we will attempt to cause our warrants to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed on any such exchange or other similarly recognized national trading platform. Internal Reporting Controls. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in conjunction with the preparation of our December 31, 2006 financial statements. No assurances can be given that additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet all the standards contemplated by Section 404 that we will eventually be required to meet. As a public company, we are required to complete our initial assessment by the filing of our Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, this result may cause us to be unable to report on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We have and will incur incremental costs in order to sustain and, where appropriate, improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring 29 additional accounting and administrative staff. This could harm our operating results and lead to a decline in our stock price. 30 Item 