ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We are currently in the process of identifying and evaluating prospective target businesses, however, we may be unable to complete a business acquisition. As described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we will not generate any operating revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that a business combination will occur. If we spend all of the proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned up to $1,800,000 on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. Through June 10, 2008, we spent $780,605 of the amount not held in trust and $747,148 of interest income earned in the trust account. Because of the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination within the required time frame. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including leveraged buyout funds, hedge funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. 15 BACK We will be limited by the requirement that our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. This requirement will prevent us from initially targeting smaller companies, even if we believe they are attractive candidates for acquisition. While it is likely that we will have the ability to initially complete only a single business combination, this may entail the acquisition of several operating businesses at the same time. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we would need each of the sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions, which may be difficult for us to accomplish and could delay the completion of the business combination. With multiple acquisitions, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has not been executed prior to July 14, 2008 (16 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), which is two months before the initial deadline for a business combination, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If, however, a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has been executed prior to September 14, 2008 (18 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), we will abandon our plan of dissolution and distribution that had been submitted to our stockholders and will instead seek the consummation of that business combination. If, following the execution of such letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement, a proxy statement seeking the approval of our stockholders for that business combination has not been filed prior to January 14, 2009 (22 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the 16 and 22-month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution, and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan; · upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; · if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and · if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive its comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. 16 BACK The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders (other than our existing stockholders), we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could significantly curtail the continued development or growth of the target business, thereby limiting its ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive approximately $7.86 per share, which is less than the $8.00 per unit offering price, upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the required time frame and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be approximately $7.86, which is less than the $8.00 per unit offering price, because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders could be less than approximately $7.86 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust may be subject to claims which would take priority over those of our public stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our 17 BACK public stockholders, Messrs. Granath, Seslowsky, Clauser and Maggin have each agreed, pursuant to written agreements with us and the representatives of the underwriters, that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of third parties that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Messrs. Granath, Seslowsky, Clauser and Maggin are aware of their indemnification obligation in the event of a claim on the trust account. They have provided, through our counsel, our independent directors with summary aggregate net worth information showing reasonably sufficient assets with which they could meet their respective obligations to indemnify the trust, if it should become necessary. In addition, our board of directors, a majority of which are independent directors, would have a fiduciary obligation to our stockholders to bring a claim against Messers. Granath, Seslowsky, Clauser and Maggin to enforce their liability obligation. However, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account will not be less than $7.86 due to such claims. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.86 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has not been executed prior to September 14, 2008 (16 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), which is two months before the initial deadline for a business combination, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If, however, a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has been executed prior to September 14, 2008 (18 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), we will abandon our plan of dissolution and distribution that had been submitted to our stockholders and will instead seek the consummation of that business combination. If, following the execution of such letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement, a proxy statement seeking the approval of our stockholders for that business combination has not been filed prior to March 14, 2009 (22 months from March 14, 2007, the date of our initial public offering), our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution, and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 18 BACK Since we have not yet selected a target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the particular merits or risks of the business in which we may ultimately operate. Although we are focusing our efforts on the entertainment, media and communications industries, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in our industry or a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in our initial public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as that more than approximately 19.99% of our public stockholders vote against the transaction even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could significantly limit our ability to subsequently locate and acquire or merge with another business. We are dependent on interest earned in the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination, and the amount of this interest may not be sufficient for this purpose. We are dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we expect to utilize up to a maximum of $1,800,000, for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our existing stockholders, directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value 19 BACK $.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering, including the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option, there were 38,680,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to the representatives of the underwriters, and giving effect to the April 2006 and June 2006 contributions of common stock to us by certain of our stockholders and the stock dividend in March 2007) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no commitments to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely will also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating income and other resources after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; · our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; · using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; 20 BACK · increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; · limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes; and · other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. While our current officers and directors intend to remain with us upon the consummation of a business combination, we cannot ensure that they will remain with us since some or all of them may resign upon the completion of the proposed business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully is totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although it is our present intention to have our current officers and directors remain with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate a position with the combined company as part of any such combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or securities for services they would render to our company after the consummation of the business combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction through the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which could divert significant management attention from operating a prospective business and make operating a prospective business more difficult. There may be potential conflicts of interest with our current officers and directors and the management of the proposed target business regarding future employment which may cause our officers and directors or the management of the target business to look unfavorably upon or reject a business combination with a potential target business. When determining the future management of a proposed target business, the current intent of our officers and directors to remain with the business may conflict with the desire of the current management to retain their positions. If our management negotiates their retention as a condition to any potential business combination, our management may look unfavorably upon or reject a business combination whose owners refuse to retain members of our management post-combination, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. Similarly, the current owners of our target business may have a vested interest in 21 BACK trying to remain with the company following the business combination, thereby causing a conflict of interest in completing any potential business combination. Similarly, the personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination on a timely basis. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination, through we acknowledge that these factors may be a factor in our decision, which poses potential conflicts of interest. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our existing stockholders) the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Because the per-share conversion price is approximately $7.86 per share upon liquidation, which may be less than the $8.00 per-unit offering price and may be less than the market price of the common stock on the date of conversion, there may be a disincentive on the part of public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. A public stockholder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise such holder’s conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust fund. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key executives. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key executive management team. Although it is our present intention to have our current officers and directors remain with us following a business combination, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. While the personal and financial interest of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination, though these considerations will be a factor in our decision, which poses potential conflicts of interest. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a detrimental effect on our ability to effectively operate our business and/or locate a prospective target business to acquire. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our existing stockholders or directors, conflicts of interest could arise. Our initial stockholders and directors either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with other companies. For instance, Herbert A. Granath is currently Chairman Emeritus of ESPN, a cable 22 BACK sports network, and Telnet, Belgium’s leading cable company. He is also the Vice Chairman of the board of directors of Central European Media Enterprises Ltd., a company which owns and operates leading commercial television stations in central and eastern Europe, and is Co-Chair of the board of directors of Crown Media Holdings, which owns and operates the Hallmark Channel. Harvey M. Seslowsky is currently affiliated with Transmedia Corporation, a private media consulting firm, and is a director of the International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. Bruce Maggin currently serves as the Vice President, Secretary and Managing Member of The H.A.M. Media Group, LLC, an international investment and advisory firm specializing in the entertainment and communications industries. He sits on the board of advisors of JumpTV Inc., on the boards of directors of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation and Central European Media Enterprises Ltd. Two of our directors, Mr. Reilly and Mr. Roskin, are also currently affiliated with other companies. For instance, Mr. Reilly currently serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the American Management Association, sits on the USO Worldwide Board of Governors and is a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Society of Association Executives. He is also the U.S. Chairman of the United States Chapter of the Royal Society of the Arts and serves on the Board of AARP Services, Inc. Mr. Roskin, a Senior Advisor to Viacom Inc., also presently serves on the board of directors of Ritz Interactive, Inc., a specialty online retailer and e-commerce provider, as well as on the board of ION Media Networks, an owner and operator of 60 broadcast television stations. If we were to seek a business combination with a target company with which one or more of our existing stockholders or directors may be affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. Conflicts that may arise may not be resolved in our favor. We cannot assure you that we will not in the future engage in discussions with or examine any such business as a potential target. We will evaluate each potential business combination opportunity as it comes to our attention, whether or not it is with a business that may be affiliated with one of our officers. We believe that it is most prudent to evaluate each potential opportunity as we hear of it, whether or not it is with a business affiliated with one of our officers. Moreover, we would evaluate any such affiliated business on the same basis as a non-affiliated business, and negotiations with such potential business would be conducted on an arms’ length basis and subject to the approval of our board, which contains a majority of independent directors. In addition, we have agreed not to consummate a business combination with an entity that is affiliated with any of our existing stockholders unless we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. We expect that any such opinion will be included in our proxy solicitation materials, furnished to stockholders in connection with their vote on such a business combination. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs and thereby limit their ability to devote sufficient time to our affairs, which could make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. While it is our executive officers’ intention to devote substantial business time to identifying potential targets and consummating a business combination, the amount of time devoted will vary depending on the stage of a potential business combination (i.e., from approximately 10 hours per week during target identification to substantially full time during negotiations), and their other business affairs could in the future require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, limiting their ability to devote sufficient time to our affairs. This could make it more difficult for 23 BACK us to complete a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our directors, officers or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated with, entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our existing stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not in the trust fund and the portion of the interest on the amounts in the trust fund being released to fund our working capital needs unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our existing stockholders, including all of our executive officers, will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust fund and the $1,800,000 aggregate amount of interest accrued on the amounts held in the trust account (net of taxes, if any, payable by us with respect to such interest) that will be released to us in monthly installments to fund a portion of our working capital requirements, unless the business combination is consummated. In such event, our existing stockholders may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses, with or without interest or other compensation, which if not agreed to by the target business’ owners, could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. We would note, however, that such expenses are likely to be insignificant compared to the value of management’s stake. Risks Associated with the Entertainment, Media and Communications Industries The speculative nature of the entertainment, media and communications industry may result in our inability to produce products or services that receive sufficient market acceptance for us to be successful. Certain segments of the entertainment, media and communications industry are highly speculative and historically have involved a substantial degree of risk. For example, the success of a particular film, video game, program or recreational attraction depends upon unpredictable and changing factors, including the success of promotional efforts, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, public acceptance and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we complete a business combination with a target 24 BACK business in such a segment, we may be unable to produce products or services that receive sufficient market acceptance for us to be successful. Changes in technology may reduce the demand for the products or services we may offer following a business combination. The entertainment, media and communications industries are substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. These changes may reduce the demand for certain existing services and technologies used in these industries or render them obsolete. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon or produced by a target business with which we effect a business combination will not be subject to such occurrence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by the target business to newer technologies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. If following a business combination, the products or services that we market or sell are not accepted by the public, our profits may decline. Certain segments of the entertainment, media and communications industries are dependent on developing and marketing new products and services that respond to technological and competitive developments and changing customer needs and tastes. We cannot assure you that the products and services of a target business with which we effect a business combination will gain market acceptance. Any significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced technology, including new product and service offerings, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenues. If we are unable to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights following a business combination, competitors may be able to use our technology or intellectual property rights, which could weaken our competitive position. If we are successful in acquiring a target business and the target business is the owner of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property or other rights of third parties it could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. If, following a business combination, third parties allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights or have defamed them, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights and/or restrict our ability to publish and distribute the infringing or defaming content. 25 BACK Risks Associated with our Common Stock Our outstanding warrants may cause the market price of our common stock to drop and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 12,420,000 shares of common stock. In addition, our existing stockholders and certain of their affiliates purchased an aggregate of 2,700,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could cause the market price for our securities to drop or limit our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our existing stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may cause the market price of our common stock and/or warrants to decline, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing stockholders are entitled to demand that we register, at our expense, the resale of their initial shares at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Moreover, we are obligated to use our best efforts to register the resale of 2,700,000 of existing stockholders’ warrants and the shares of common stock underlying such warrants after the 90th day after the consummation of our initial business combination. If all of the initial shares, their existing stockholders’ warrants and the shares of common stock underlying the existing stockholders’ warrants are registered, then there will be an additional 5,400,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (assuming exercise of the existing stockholders’ warrants). The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the nature of our investments and the issuance of our securities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 26 BACK We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust will only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants, which could expire worthless. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise, a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. The warrants could therefore expire unexercised and unredeemed. In no event will we be required to net cash settle the warrants. Our existing stockholders’ warrants have superior exercise rights to those warrants received in our initial public offering. If there is no registration statement in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants received in the public offering may be deprived of any value, the market for such warrants may be limited and the holders of such warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants. With respect to existing stockholders’ warrants, we would be permitted to issue unregistered shares of our common stock pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the securities underlying such warrants be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, the existing stockholders’ warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place, and the existing stockholders may be able to exercise their warrants at a time when warrant purchasers in the public offering may not be able to exercise their warrants. We are only required to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the warrants issued in this public offering may expire worthless. In no event will we be required to net cash settle the warrants. We may be obligated to return the funds raised in our private placement if that transaction was not conducted in compliance with the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act. The six purchasers in our private placement of existing stockholder warrants included one entity other than our officers and directors. Although such entity is an accredited investor within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Act, a court may take the position that such private placement was not conducted in accordance with any exemption from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act because, for example, the filing of a registration statement in the context of a private placement constituted an improper “general solicitation” of investors. A court could also conclude that 27 BACK our decision to approach Astor Asset Management and The Hearst Corporation after these entities expressed interest in participating in the public offering could have violated Section 5 of the Act. If our private placement was not conducted in compliance with the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act, the six purchasers in our private placement may have the right to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities. These rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund up to an aggregate of $2,700,000, plus interest, to such persons, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed by our initial public offering, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Although such persons have waived their respective rescission rights, if any, such waivers may not be enforceable in light of public policy considerations underlying federal and state securities laws. In addition, we could be subject to an enforcement action from the SEC or a state securities authority based on an alleged violation of securities laws. We may redeem the warrants included in the units sold in our initial public offering for $0.01 under certain circumstances, even if such warrants are not then exercisable because there is no current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon such exercise. After the later of consummation of a business combination and March 9, 2008, we will be entitled to redeem the warrants if the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 for any 20 trading days within a 30 day trading period ending three days before we send the notice of redemption. The redemption price is $0.01 per warrant. Under the provisions of the warrant agreement, we would be entitled to redeem the warrants even though the prospectus relating to the exercise of the warrants is not current and the warrants are therefore not exercisable. Accordingly, your warrants may be redeemed for $0.01 at a time when you have no practical ability to exercise the warrants, even though at such time the warrants could be “in the money” at the time of such redemption. In this event, you would effectively forfeit the full value of your warrants, which may be substantial, and you would have no claim against us for all or any portion of any such value. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange as we may not meet continued listing standards such as income from continuing operations. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: · a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possible result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and 28 BACK · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Risks Associated with Effecting a Business Combination Internationally A prospective foreign target business’ compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. If we do find a prospective target internationally, this business may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the necessary internal controls of such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs needed to complete any such acquisition. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. If we do find a prospective target with its primary operations abroad (most likely in Europe or Asia), changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate against that foreign country’s currency may affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If the U.S. dollar declines in value against the foreign currency in which our prospective target operates, then any business combination will be more expensive and, therefore, potentially more difficult to complete. Furthermore, we may incur costs with currency conversions which may make it more expensive to consummate a business combination. If political relations between the U.S. and the home country of our prospective target business weaken, it could make a target business’ operations less attractive. Relations between the United States and any foreign country where our potential business target may reside may deteriorate over time. Changes in political conditions are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target business to become less attractive, which could decrease our profitability. Any weakening in the relations between the U.S. and the home country of our potential business target could have a material adverse effect on our operations after the successful completion of a business combination. The home country of a prospective target may have different disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements than those in the United States which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Foreign companies are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of a foreign company may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way that they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or US GAAP, which could make it more difficult for us to determine the fair market value of the target. There may be substantially less publicly available information about a foreign company than there is about U.S. companies. Moreover, some companies in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to the same degree of regulation as are U.S. companies. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 BACK 