Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial conditions and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Risks associated with our status as a blank check company We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses in the healthcare-related sector. We have entered into a material definitive agreement to acquire InfuSystem, Inc., but the consummation of the business combination is dependent upon approval from our shareholders. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. 10 Table of Contents You are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with one or more operating businesses in the healthcare-related sector, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the federal securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, which included an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies such as Rule 419 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, we have a longer period of time within which to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation distribution received by stockholders could be less than $5.86 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. We seek to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute valid and enforceable agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account and to date have entered into such agreements with InfuSystem. As a result, we believe the claims that could be made against it will be significantly reduced and the likelihood that any claim that would result in any liability extending to the trust will be limited. However, there is no guarantee that going forward such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than $5.86, plus interest, due to claims of such creditors. If we cannot complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Sean McDevitt, the chairman of our board, and Pat LaVecchia, our secretary and a director, will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, or claims of other parties with which we have contracted, including the claims of any prospective target with which we have entered into a written letter of intent, confidentiality or non-disclosure agreement with respect to a failed business combination with such prospective target, so that the trust account proceeds are not reduced by the claims of potential contracted parties, former target businesses or others. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. McDevitt and LaVecchia will be able to satisfy those obligations. Our officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses, which could produce conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs and could cause us to be less efficient in completing an acquisition than a competitor. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers and directors is engaged in other business endeavors and is not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could cause us to be less efficient in completing an acquisition than a prospective competitor or otherwise have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our officers and directors are currently, and all may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity, and in what priority, a particular business opportunity should be presented. John Voris, our CEO and a director, Erin Enright, our CFO, Jean-Pierre Millon, one of our directors, and Wayne Yetter, one of our directors, are currently, and all of our officers and directors may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In addition, all of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with other “blank check” companies. Our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity, and in what priority, a particular business opportunity should be presented. We have entered into agreements with FTN Midwest Securities Corp., Sean McDevitt and Pat LaVecchia, under the terms of which each of them has agreed to present to us for our consideration any opportunity to acquire all or substantially all of the outstanding equity securities of, or otherwise acquire a controlling equity interest in, an operating business in the healthcare, or a healthcare-related, sector, provided that they are under no obligation to present to us any opportunity involving a business in the healthcare, or a healthcare-related, sector seeking a strategic combination with another operating business in the healthcare, or a healthcare-related, sector. The terms of these agreements do not obligate these individuals or FTN Midwest Securities Corp. to present any opportunities to us for consideration prior to presenting such opportunities to any other person or entity. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be reduced. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as the purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. 12 Table of Contents If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be reduced. As a result, the market price of our securities may become depressed, and you may find it difficult to sell our securities. Our initial stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote and could support proposals that are not in your interest. Our initial stockholders own 9.4% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Sean McDevitt holds 624,286 warrants purchased in a private placement. Our initial stockholders will continue to exert considerable control over us. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have outstanding warrants to purchase 34,374,788 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you will experience dilution to your holdings. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq National Market or a national exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market. They are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities sponsored and operated by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., but not included in the Nasdaq National Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq National Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity limits the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of our securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. • In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: 13 Table of Contents • registration and regulation as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in a money market fund fully collateralized by United States government securities. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we believe we meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 under the 1940 Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to complete a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information as of February 15, 2007, we have identified approximately 87 similarly structured companies which have gone public since 2003, of which 20 have actually consummated a business combination. As of such date, the remaining 67 companies have more than $5.5 billion in trust and are seeking to consummate business combinations. Of these companies, 24 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements for business combinations but not yet consummated these transactions. In addition, while some of the companies must consummate their respective business combinations in specific industries, a significant number of them may consummate their business combinations in any industry they choose or have very broad definitions of the industries they will target. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies as well as financial institutions and numerous other buyers for potential acquisitions. As a result, we face increased competition in targeting an operating business. Furthermore, there are also 48 similarly structured companies currently in registration planning to raise approximately $4.1 billion and there are likely to be more such companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. Competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours could increase demand for attractive target companies. Further, the fact that very few of such companies have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination and even fewer have completed a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available or that target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination, nor can we assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate and the portion of your investment not placed in trust would be lost. A provision in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation preventing amendment of certain language therein may not be enforceable under Delaware law. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions governing the process for the approval of a business combination and the release of funds from the trust account. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that these provisions may not be amended prior to the consummation of a business combination. The enforceability of this prohibition of any amendment under Delaware law is unclear. Although Delaware law may allow us to amend these provisions upon obtaining the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our common stock, we will not propose any such amendment to our stockholders. Specifically, prior to the consummation of a 14 Table of Contents business combination we will not amend or modify the provisions of Article FIFTH in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation dealing with the restrictions and requirements of stockholder approval of a business combination. Risks Related to the Acquisition On September 29, 2006, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with I-Flow, Iceland Acquisition Subsidiary, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and InfuSystem, a wholly-owned subsidiary of I-Flow. Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, Iceland Acquisition Subsidiary will purchase all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of InfuSystem. Concurrently with the acquisition, our subsidiary will merge with and into InfuSystem. After the merger, Iceland Acquisition Subsidiary will cease to exist as an independent entity and InfuSystem, as the surviving corporation, will continue its corporate existence under the laws of the State of California. The name of the surviving corporation will be InfuSystem, Inc. If the acquisition of InfuSystem is not approved by our stockholders, it is unlikely that we will be able to consummate an alternate business combination within the time frame required by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, in which case, we will be forced to liquidate. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of its net assets (excluding the deferred underwriting discount and commission held in the trust account in the amount of approximately $5,468,000) at the time of the business combination within 18 months after the consummation of its initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of its initial public offering if a definitive agreement relating to a business combination has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of its initial public offering). As the Stock Purchase Agreement was executed on September 29, 2006, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires us to consummate the acquisition of InfuSystem by April 18, 2008 (notwithstanding the fact that we are contractually bound to complete the acquisition by April 30, 2007 under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement). If we fail to consummate the acquisition by April 18, 2008, it is unlikely that we will have sufficient time to complete an alternative business combination and will be forced to liquidate our assets. If we are forced to liquidate our assets, our stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete the acquisition and forced to liquidate its assets, the per-share liquidation distribution on the shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses related to the initial public offering, general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking the acquisition of InfuSystem. Furthermore, warrants issued by us will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of the acquisition. If our stockholders exercise their right to convert their common stock into a pro rata share of the trust account, we will need to increase that amount that we borrow from I-Flow under the Promissory Note Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering in April 2006 may vote against the acquisition and demand that we convert their shares, as of the record date, into a pro rata share of the trust account where a substantial portion of the net proceeds of the initial public offering are held. Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, we will not consummate the acquisition if stockholders owning 20% or more shares of common stock issued in the initial public offering exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the acquisition is consummated and holders have demanded to convert their shares, there will be a 15 Table of Contents corresponding increase in the amount that we will need to borrow from I-Flow under the promissory note. The principal amount of the promissory note will thus range from $55,000,000 to $75,000,000, the difference used to pay stockholders who exercise their conversion rights. Assuming the acquisition is approved and less than 20% of our shares of common stock that were issued in the initial public offering exercise their conversion rights, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to our stockholders upon the exercise of their conversion rights is approximately $20,000,000, or approximately 21% of the funds then held in the trust account. Any payment upon exercise of conversion rights will require us to increase the principal amount that we borrow under the promissory note. Debt incurred in connection with the acquisition of InfuSystem could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. If the acquisition of InfuSystem is consummated we will be highly leveraged. Depending upon the number of our stockholders who exercise their conversion rights, we will owe I-Flow between $55,000,000 and $75,000,000 under the promissory note, in addition to interest accrued thereon. Such indebtedness could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth and working capital; • limiting our operational flexibility in planning for or reacting to changing conditions in our business and industry; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged, or whose debt is at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions or preventing us from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy. If we do not have enough money to meet our payment obligations under the promissory note when due, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt under the promissory note, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt under the promissory note, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all, the failure to do any of which could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness to I-Flow under the promissory note will be secured by substantially all of our assets. I-Flow’s security interest in substantially all of our assets may limit our flexibility in the way we operate our business and our ability to obtain additional financing from third parties. Our indebtedness to I-Flow under the promissory note will be secured by substantially all of our assets. I-Flow’s security interest in substantially all of our assets may have adverse consequences for our business and financial conditions, including limiting our operational flexibility in planning for or reacting to changing conditions in our business and industry and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth and working capital. Our ability to operate successfully after the acquisition will be largely dependent upon the efforts of the key personnel who will join us following the acquisition and who may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully operate after the acquisition of InfuSystem will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our management personnel following the acquisition, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Pursuant to the terms of an employment agreement under negotiation between HAPC and Steven E. Watkins, president of InfuSystem, it is anticipated that Mr. Watkins will replace John Voris as chief executive officer of HAPC upon completion of the acquisition. Mr. Watkins will also become a member of our Board of Directors. At the time the acquisition is completed, Erin Enright, the current chief financial officer of HAPC will resign. HAPC is actively recruiting a new chief financial officer to replace Ms. Enright. If, at the time of the closing of the acquisition, HAPC has not hired an individual to replace Ms. Enright as chief financial officer, it is anticipated that Stephen C. Revere, the current controller of InfuSystem, will assume the duties of the chief financial officer of HAPC, until HAPC has hired a new chief financial officer to replace Ms. Enright. Additionally, upon completion of the acquisition, the remaining members of InfuSystem’s current management team will be employed by us in capacities similar to their roles with respect to InfuSystem. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after the acquisition of InfuSystem, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as with United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming, which would reduce our profitability, and could lead to various regulatory problems that would further increase costs and reduce profitability. Because certain of our directors and officers own shares of our common stock that will not participate in any liquidation distribution of the trust account, they have interests in the acquisition that are different from our stockholders generally. Stockholders should be aware that members of our Board are parties to agreements or arrangements that provide them with interests that differ from, or are in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our directors and officers, other than Sean McDevitt and Pat LaVecchia, own shares of HAPC common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering. Our initial stockholders will not have the right to receive distributions from the trust account upon our liquidation in the event that we fail to complete the acquisition of InfuSystem within the time frame required by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. The shares of common stock owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, Sean McDevitt, our Chairman, has personally guaranteed our payment of up to $3,000,000 in break up fees to I-Flow in the event that that Stock Purchase Agreement is terminated by I-Flow (i) because of our failure to obtain the stockholder approval required by the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement by April 30, 2007 for any reason or (ii) because HAPC or our subsidiary is unwilling or unable to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement, notwithstanding the fact that all conditions precedent to the Stock Purchase Agreement to be satisfied by I-Flow and InfuSystem have been satisfied or are capable of fulfillment. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed, which will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed. These costs will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. Transaction costs will be expensed by the respective parties whether or not the acquisition is consummated. We estimate that we will incur direct transaction costs of approximately $2,750,000. There is no assurance that the actual costs may not exceed these estimates. In addition, InfuSystem and/or HAPC may incur additional material charges reflecting additional costs associated with the 17 Table of Contents acquisition in fiscal quarters subsequent to the quarter in which the acquisition was consummated. There is no assurance that the significant costs associated with the acquisition will prove to be justified in light of the benefits ultimately realized. The consummation of the acquisition could result in disruptions in business, loss of customers or contracts or other adverse effects. The consummation of the acquisition may cause disruptions, including potential loss of business partners and customers, in the business of InfuSystem, which could have material adverse effects the operations of InfuSystem subsequent to the merger of our subsidiary with and into InfuSystem. InfuSystem’s customers, and other business partners, in response to the consummation of the acquisition, may adversely change or terminate their relationships with InfuSystem, which could have a material adverse effect on the business of InfuSystem. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights after the consummation of the acquisition, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time six months following the consummation of the acquisition, pursuant to the terms of their respective lock-up agreements. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of the shares of common stock held by them, then there will be at least 1,750,001 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market (in addition to 2,000,000 shares of common stock to be issued to Sean McDevitt and 416,666 shares of common stock to be issued to Pat LaVecchia by us on the date that is the later of six months after completion of the acquisition or April 11, 2007). The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock after the acquisition. If the acquisition’s benefits do not meet the expectations of the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition if InfuSystem does not perform as expected, or we do not otherwise achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by the marketplace, or financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price and we may not be able to raise future capital, if necessary, in the equity markets. As a result of the acquisition, our stockholders will be solely dependent on a single business. As a result of the acquisition, our stockholders will be solely dependent upon the performance of InfuSystem and its business. InfuSystem will be subject to a number of risks that relate generally to the healthcare industry and other risks that relate specifically to InfuSystem. Results of operations may be volatile as a result of the impact of fluctuations in the fair value of our outstanding warrants from quarter to quarter. Our outstanding warrants are classified as derivative liabilities and therefore, their fair values are recorded as derivative liabilities on our balance sheet. Changes in the fair values of the warrants will result in adjustments to the amount of the recorded derivative liabilities and the corresponding gain or loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. We are required to assess these fair values of its derivative liabilities each quarter and as the value of the warrants is quite sensitive to changes in the market price of our stock, among other things, fluctuations in such value could be substantial and could 18 Table of Contents cause our results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Even if the merger is consummated, these fluctuations will continue to impact our results of operations for as long as the warrants are outstanding. Risks Relating to the Business and Operations Following the Acquisition of InfuSystem The value of your investment in HAPC following consummation of the acquisition will be subject to the significant risks inherent in the healthcare industry. If any of the events described below occur, the business and financial results of InfuSystem subsequent to the acquisition could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly, and stockholders therefore may lose all or part of their investment. InfuSystem is dependent on its Medicare Supplier Number. InfuSystem has obtained a Medicare Supplier Number and is required to comply with Medicare Supplier Standards in order to maintain such number. If InfuSystem ceases to be able to comply with the relevant standards, it could lose its Medicare Supplier Number, which is the primary identification number used with InfuSystem’s various third-party payors. The loss of such identification number for any reason would prevent InfuSystem from billing Medicare for patients who rely on Medicare to pay their medical expenses and, as a result, InfuSystem would experience a decrease in its revenues. Furthermore, all managed care and Medicaid contracts require InfuSystem to have a Medicare Supplier Number. Without such a number, InfuSystem would be unable to continue its managed care and Medicaid contracts and would experience a material decrease in revenues as a result. The majority of InfuSystem’s revenue is dependent upon its Medicare Supplier Number. Changes in third-party reimbursement rates may adversely impact InfuSystem’s revenues. InfuSystem depends primarily on third-party reimbursement for the collection of its revenues. InfuSystem is paid directly by private insurers and governmental agencies, often on a fixed fee basis, for infusion equipment and related disposable supplies provided to patients. If the average fees allowable by private insurers or governmental agencies were reduced, the negative impact on revenues could have a material adverse effect on InfuSystem’s financial condition and results of operations. Also, if collection amounts owed to InfuSystem by patients and insurers is reduced, InfuSystem may be required to increase its bad debt expense. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, InfuSystem experienced a bad debt increase of $0.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively. InfuSystem’s customers frequently receive reimbursement from private insurers and governmental agencies. Any change in the overall reimbursement system may adversely impact InfuSystem’s business. The health care reimbursement system is in a constant state of change. Changes often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance of infusion therapy may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the reimbursement system. Changes to the health care system that favor technologies or treatment regimens other than InfuSystem’s or that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities that use InfuSystem’s products may adversely affect InfuSystem’s ability to market its products profitably. InfuSystem’s customers are heavily dependent on payment for their services by private insurers and governmental agencies. Changes in the reimbursement system could adversely affect InfuSystem’s participation in the industry. InfuSystem believes that the current trend in the insurance industry (both private and governmental) has been to eliminate cost-based reimbursement and to move towards fixed or 19 Table of Contents limited fees for service, thereby encouraging health care providers to use the lowest cost method of delivering medications. Furthermore, certain payors may transition to competitive bidding programs to lower costs even more. These trends may discourage the use of InfuSystem’s products, create downward pressure on InfuSystem’s average prices, and, ultimately, negatively affect InfuSystem’s revenues and profit margins. InfuSystem’s success is impacted by the availability of the chemotherapy drugs that are used in InfuSystem’s infusion pump systems. InfuSystem primarily derives its revenue from the rental of ambulatory infusion pump systems to oncology patients through physicians’ offices and chemotherapy clinics. A shortage in the availability of chemotherapy drugs that are used in the infusion pump systems, including the commonly-used chemotherapy drug known as 5-Fluorouracil, could have a material adverse effect on InfuSystem’s financial condition and results of operations. For instance, InfuSystem believes a shortage of 5-Fluorouracil in the fourth quarter of 2005 resulted in an unfavorable revenue impact of approximately $1.9 million. The 5-Fluorouracil shortage continued into the first quarter of 2006 and, although availability of 5-Fluorouracil returned to normal at the end of the first quarter of 2006, revenue was affected during the second quarter of 2006 due to a decline in the number of patients in the pipeline who had to turn to other medications. Future shortages of 5-Fluorouracil or other commonly-used chemotherapy drugs could negatively impact InfuSystem’s revenue and financial condition. InfuSystem’s revenues are heavily dependent on physicians’ acceptance of infusion therapy as a preferred therapy since a significant percentage of patients are treated with oral medications. If new oral medications are introduced or future clinical studies demonstrate that oral medications are as effective or more effective than infusion therapy, InfuSystem’s business could be adversely affected. Continuous infusion therapy is currently preferred by many physicians over oral medication treatment despite the more cumbersome aspects of maintaining a continuous infusion regimen. The reasons for these physicians’ preference are varied, including a belief that infusion therapy involves fewer adverse side effects and may provide greater therapeutic benefits. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing, evaluating and comparing the therapeutic benefits of current infusion-based regimens with various oral medication regimens. If these clinical trials demonstrate that oral medications provide equal or greater therapeutic benefits and/or demonstrate reduced side effects from prior oral medication regimens, InfuSystem’s revenues and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if new oral medications are introduced to the market that are superior to existing oral therapies, physicians’ willingness to prescribe infusion-based regimens could decline, which would adversely affect InfuSystem’s financial condition and results of operations. InfuSystem’s growth strategy includes expansion into infusion treatment for cancers other than the colorectal type. There can be no assurance that infusion-based regimens for these other cancers will become accepted or that InfuSystem will be successful in penetrating these different markets. An aspect of InfuSystem’s growth strategy is to expand into the treatment of other cancers, such as head, neck, esophagus, stomach and lung. Currently, however, there is not widespread acceptance of infusion-based therapies in the treatment of these other cancers and future acceptance of continuous infusion therapies depends on new protocols for existing drugs and approval of new drugs currently in clinical trials. No assurances can be given that these new drugs will be approved or will prove superior to oral medication or other treatment alternatives. In addition, no assurances can be given that InfuSystem will be able to successfully penetrate any new markets that may develop in the future or manage the growth in additional resources that would be required. 20 Table of Contents The industry in which InfuSystem operates is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If InfuSystem is unable to successfully compete with its competitors, its business operations may suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. InfuSystem competes in this industry based primarily on price, service and performance. Some of InfuSystem’s competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than InfuSystem does for research and development, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which InfuSystem’s services may be superior. The industry is subject to technological changes and such changes may put InfuSystem’s current fleet of pumps at a competitive disadvantage. If InfuSystem is unable to effectively compete in its market, its financial condition and results of operations may materially suffer. InfuSystem relies on independent suppliers for its products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of products, particularly its supply of electronic ambulatory pumps, may negatively impact InfuSystem’s operations. InfuSystem’s infusion pumps are obtained from outside vendors. The majority of InfuSystem’s pumps are electronic ambulatory pumps which are supplied to InfuSystem by three major suppliers: Smiths Medical, Inc.; Hospira Worldwide, Inc.; and McKinley Medical, LLC. The loss or breakdown of InfuSystem’s relationships with even one of these outside vendors could subject InfuSystem to substantial delays in the delivery of its products to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of products could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. InfuSystem’s inability to provide products to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on its reputation in the industry, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. Although InfuSystem does not manufacture the products it distributes, if one of the products distributed by InfuSystem proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner or patient, InfuSystem may be subject to liability that could adversely affect InfuSystem’s financial condition and results of operations. Although InfuSystem does not manufacture the products that it distributes, a defect in the design or manufacture of one of the products distributed by InfuSystem, or a failure of products distributed by InfuSystem to perform for the use specified, could have a material adverse effect on InfuSystem’s reputation in the industry and subject InfuSystem to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of products distributed by InfuSystem by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject InfuSystem to liability. Any substantial underinsured loss could have a material adverse effect on InfuSystem’s financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any impairment of InfuSystem’s reputation could have a material adverse effect on its sales, revenues, and prospects for future business. InfuSystem will not be covered by insurance policies held by us and will need to obtain its own insurance. After the closing of the acquisition, InfuSystem will need to have its own insurance in place. InfuSystem will not be covered by the policies carried by us. Among the various types of insurance that InfuSystem will need to obtain are liability insurance, worker’s compensation insurance and product liability insurance. Insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, InfuSystem may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on its business. InfuSystem may be required to make a significant cash payment to the State of Michigan Department of Treasury for use taxes imposed on InfuSystem’s purchase of infusion pumps. 21 Table of Contents In August 2005, the State of Michigan Department of Treasury issued a decision and order of determination which provided that InfuSystem is liable for use taxes on its purchases of infusion pumps. As a result, InfuSystem has recorded through September 30, 2006 a cumulative net increase to gross fixed assets of $1,168,000, a tax liability of $1,281,000, a liability for accrued interest expense of $210,000, and total expense of $861,000. InfuSystem is currently appealing the decision. In the event that InfuSystem’s appeal of the decision is not successful, InfuSystem may be required to make a payment in excess of $1,491,000 to the State of Michigan Department of Treasury, which will result in a decrease in InfuSystem’s available working capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 