Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses. We incurred losses from continuing operations for the last five fiscal years. Although our objective is to report net profits in the future, our objectives may not be realized and we may continue to experience losses. If our revenue grows slower than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, or if we continue to incur operating losses, we may not be able to become profitable, in which case our financial condition would be adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Our ability to achieve profitability will also depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. We expect to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures, including general and administrative costs to support our operations and the costs of being a public company. We base our expenses in large part on our operating plans, current business strategies and future revenue projections. Many of our expenses, such as our retail store lease expenses, are fixed in the short term, and we may not be able to quickly reduce expenses and spending if our revenues are lower than we project. In addition, we may find that our costs to maintain or expand our operations, and in particular the costs to purchase inventory, produce our catalogs and build, outfit and employ personnel for our retail stores, are more expensive than we currently anticipate. Therefore, the magnitude and timing of these expenses may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our success depends largely on the value of our brand, and if the value of our brand was to diminish, our sales are likely to decline. The prominence of our catalogs and e-commerce website and our retail stores among our teenage target market are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Moreover, we anticipate that we will continue to increase the number of customers we target, through means that could include broadening the intended audience of our existing brand. Misjudgments by us in this regard could damage our existing or future brands. Any adverse effects on our current or future brands could result in decreases in sales. If we fail to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors, our sales are likely to decline. Customer tastes and fashion trends are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends in part on our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully predict or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower, and we may be faced with unsold inventory. In response, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to attract customers to our retail stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls and other retail centers in which our stores are located. Any decrease in customer traffic in those shopping centers could negatively impact our sales. Customer traffic in our retail stores depends heavily on locating our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls or other retail centers. Sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those 13 Table of Contents shopping centers. Our stores benefit from the ability of other tenants to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the shopping centers as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and customer traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns in a particular area, competition from internet retailers, non-mall retailers and other shopping destinations, and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the shopping centers in which our retail stores are located. A reduction in customer traffic for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some malls that were in prominent locations when we opened stores may cease to be viewed as prominent. If this occurs, our sales may be adversely affected. Internet sales are subject to numerous risks. We sell merchandise over the internet through our e-commerce website, www.delias.com. Our internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • changing consumer tastes and preferences; • the successful implementation of new systems and internet or mobile platforms; • the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, causing, among other things, website downtimes and other technical failures; • reliance on third-party computer hardware/software; • rapid technological change; • liability for online content; • violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; • credit card fraud; and • telecommunications failures and vulnerability to electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Our failure to successfully address and respond to these risks could reduce internet sales, increase costs and damage the reputation of our brand. We depend on our key personnel to operate our business, and we may not be able to hire enough additional management and other personnel to manage our growth. In addition, we may face risks associated with the transition of senior management. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could adversely affect our business. Additionally, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate talented management and other highly skilled employees to be successful. We must also hire and train store managers to support our retail expansion. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. On March 30, 2013, we announced that Dyan Jozwick, President of dELiA*s Brand, resigned from the Company. On May 30, 2013, we announced that Tracy Gardner, our former Chief Creative Officer who joined the Company on May 1, 2013, was appointed Chief Executive Officer, and Walter Killough, our former Chief Executive Officer, was appointed Chief Operating Officer, in each case, effective June 5, 2013. Mr. Killough left the Company following the expiration of his employment agreement on August 2, 2013. On August 6, 2013, we announced that Daphne Smith was appointed as Executive Vice President of Operations, and on October 15, 2013, we announced that Brian Lex Austin-Gemas was appointed as Chief Operating Officer. There can be no assurance that the new management team will be able to execute our business model in a manner that will allow our Company to sustain growth and continued success. Changes in senior leadership could impact employee stability as well. 14 Table of Contents We rely on third parties for some essential business operations and services, and disruptions or failures in service or changes in terms may adversely affect our ability to deliver goods and services to our customers. We currently depend on third parties for important aspects of our business, such as printing, shipping, paper supplies, operation of our e-commerce website, and the outsourcing of our call center function. We have limited control over these third parties, and we are not their only client. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of these third parties on acceptable commercial terms. Further, we cannot be certain that the quality or cost of products and services that they provide will remain at current levels or the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Postal rate and other shipping rate increases, as well as increases in paper and printing costs, affect the cost of our order fulfillment and catalog mailings. We rely heavily on quantity discounts in these areas. No assurances can be given that we will continue to receive these discounts and that we will not be subject to additional increases in costs in excess of those already announced. Any increases in these costs will have a negative impact on earnings to the extent we are unable or do not pass such increases on directly to customers or offset such increases by raising selling prices or by implementing more efficient printing, mailing and delivery alternatives. Our ability to meet our cash requirements depends on many factors. Based on our current and anticipated future results of operations and the proceeds we received from the Private Placement, we believe that our current cash balances, cash flow from operations, and availability under our credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements. However, depending on results of operations for future periods, as well as our ongoing expense reduction program, our current cash balances, cash flow from operations, and availability under our credit facilities may not be sufficient to meet our future cash requirements, including but not limited to, any retail store openings or remodels. For example, if we do not meet our targets for revenue growth, gross margins, or expenses, or if our costs associated with any retail store expansion plans are not as anticipated, our current sources of funds may be insufficient to meet our cash requirements. We may fail to meet our targets for revenue growth for a variety of reasons, including: • decreased consumer spending in response to weak economic conditions; • higher energy prices causing a decreased level of disposable income; • weakness in the teenage market; • poor response to our merchandise offerings; • increased competition from our competitors; and • marketing and expansion plans that are not as successful as we anticipate. Additionally, if demand for our products decreases or our retail store plans do not produce the desired sales increases, such developments could reduce our operating revenues. If such funds, together with cash on hand and availability under our existing Credit Agreement with Salus are insufficient to cover our expenses, we could be required to adopt one or more alternatives listed below. For example, we could be required to: • reduce or delay capital spending; • reduce discretionary spending; • sell assets or operations; and/or • sell additional equity or debt securities, which equity securities may be dilutive. If we are required to take any of the actions in the first three items immediately above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to grow our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions because 15 Table of Contents of (i) a variety of commercial or market factors, or (ii) market conditions being unfavorable for an equity or debt offering. In addition, such actions, if taken, may not enable us to satisfy our cash requirements if the actions do not generate a sufficient amount of additional capital. We may fail to use our database and our expertise in marketing to consumers successfully, and we may not be able to maintain the quality and size of our database. The effective use of our consumer database and our expertise in marketing to consumers are important components of our business. If we fail to capitalize on these assets, our business will be less successful. Currently, we have useful data for only a portion of our targeted market. Additionally, as individuals in our database age, they are less likely to purchase our products and their data is thus of less value to our business. We must, therefore, continuously obtain data on new potential customers and on those persons who are just entering their teenage years in order to maintain and increase the size and value of our database. If we fail to obtain sufficient numbers of new names and related information, our business could be adversely affected. General economic conditions may adversely impact our results of operations. Our financial performance is subject to world-wide economic conditions and the resulting impact on U.S. consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending, which may remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on market declines, increasing health care costs, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, increases in fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence, failure to increase the debt ceiling in the U.S., and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. A downturn in the U.S. economy could affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. Our agreement with Alloy, LLC to license our database information may make that information less valuable to us. We and Alloy, LLC have agreed that we will license data collected by dELiA*s (excluding credit card data), subject to applicable laws and privacy policies, although Alloy, LLC has agreed not to provide certain of this data to our competitors, with some limited exceptions. Certain actions that Alloy, LLC could take, such as breaching its contractual covenants, could result in our losing a significant portion of the competitive advantage we believe our database provides to us. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. New retail store openings could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing operations to suffer. Any retail store expansion will largely depend on our ability to find sites to open and operate new stores successfully. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on several factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • prepare stores for opening within budget; • source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs to meet the needs of new stores; • hire, train and retain store personnel; 16 Table of Contents • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; • contain payroll costs; and • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund any of our expansion plans. In addition, any retail store expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which, in turn, could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and our overall business. Modifications and/or upgrades to our information technology systems may disrupt our operations. We regularly evaluate our information technology systems and requirements. Modifications may include replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of the inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including inaccurate system information, system disruptions and user acceptance and understanding. Information technology system disruptions and inaccurate system information, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successfully implemented system will deliver the anticipated value to us. Our catalog response rates may decline. The number of customers who make purchases from catalogs that we mail to them, which we refer to as “response rates,” may decline due to, among other things, our ability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. Response rates also usually decline when we mail additional catalog editions to the same customers within a short time period. In addition, there can be no assurance that any strategic circulation cuts will enable us to improve or maintain our response rates. These trends in response rates may have a material adverse effect on our rate of sales growth and on our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Traffic to our e-commerce website may decline, resulting in fewer purchases of our products. Additionally, the number of e-commerce visitors that we are able to convert into purchasers may decline. In order to generate online customer traffic, we depend heavily on mailed catalogs, outbound emails and an affiliates program in which we pay third parties for traffic referred from their websites to our e-commerce website. Our sales volume and e-commerce website traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, declines in the number and frequency of our catalog mailings, reductions in outbound emails and declines in referrals from third parties. Our sales volume may also be adversely affected by economic downturns, system failures and competition from other internet and non-internet retailers. In addition, the number of e-commerce visitors that we are able to convert into purchasers may decline due to, among other things, our inability to effectively predict and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands and translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner and our inability to keep up with new technologies and e-commerce features. The internet and the e-commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing e-commerce website, the www.delias.com website, and our respective systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing our e-commerce website and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. We may face material delays in introducing new services, products or enhancements. If this happens, our customers may forego the use of our e-commerce website and use websites and e-commerce pages of our competitors. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adequately adapt our website, our transaction processing systems and our computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. 17 Table of Contents We do not own the uniform resource locator that directs customers to our e-commerce website. Pursuant to an agreement with Alloy, LLC, it will continue to own the uniform resource locator that directs customers to the www.delias.com website. Because a significant portion of our direct marketing sales come from our e-commerce site, if Alloy, LLC fails to maintain that uniform resource locater, our e-commerce activities may suffer. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues, our quarterly results may fluctuate. Our business is seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for teen clothing and accessories, which provide the majority of our sales during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons. Typically, a larger portion of our revenues are obtained during our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Any significant decrease in sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other parts of the year, and we must hire temporary workers and incur additional staffing costs in our warehouse and retail stores to meet anticipated sales demand. If sales for the third and fourth quarters do not meet anticipated levels, then increased expenses may not be offset, which could decrease our profitability. Additionally, any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could decrease our profitability. Competition may adversely affect our business. The teenage girl retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location, in-store environment and service being the principal competitive factors. We compete for retail store sales with specialty apparel retailers and certain other youth-focused apparel retailers, such as American Eagle Outfitters, Abercrombie & Fitch, Aeropostale, Hollister, Wet Seal, Forever 21, H&M and others. We also compete for retail store sales with full price and discount department stores such as Target, Kohl’s, Nordstrom’s, Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s and others. If we are unable to compete effectively for retail store sales, we may lose market share, which would reduce our revenues and gross profit. In addition, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls with certain of our competitors as well as numerous other retailers. Many of our competitors are large national chains, which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. The growth of our retail store business depends significantly on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investments and lease costs that allow us to earn a return that meets or exceeds our financial projections. Desirable new locations may not be available to us at all or at reasonable costs. In addition, we must be able to renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our failure to secure favorable real estate and lease terms generally and upon renewal, or even being permitted to renew our expiring leases, could cause us to lose market share which would reduce our revenues and gross profit. Many of our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors in our target markets, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These advantages allow our competitors to spend considerably more on marketing and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can use ours. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities and be better able to withstand market downturns than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Closing stores could result in significant costs to us. We could, in the future, decide to close additional retail stores that are producing losses or that are not as profitable as we expect. If we decide to close any stores before the expiration of their lease terms, we may incur payments to landlords to terminate or “buy out” the remaining term of the lease. We also may incur costs related 18 Table of Contents to the employees at such stores, whether or not we terminate the leases early. Upon any such closure, the closing costs, fixed assets, and inventory write-downs would adversely affect our results and could adversely affect our cash on hand. Our dELiA*s exclusive branding activities could lead to increased inventory obsolescence. Our promotion and sale of dELiA*s branded products increases our exposure to risks of inventory obsolescence. Accordingly, if a particular style of product does not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross profit margin and other operating results. Moreover, dELiA*s exclusive brand development plans may include entry into joint ventures and additional licensing or distribution arrangements, which may also contribute to increased inventory obsolescence as third parties may control more of these operations. Our master license agreement with JLP Daisy could cause us to lose our trademarks or otherwise adversely affect the value of our dELiA*s brand. In February 2003, dELiA*s Brand, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a master license agreement with JLP Daisy to license our dELiA*s brand on an exclusive basis for wholesale distribution in certain product categories, primarily in mid- and upper-tier department stores, in exchange for an up-front payment from JLP Daisy of $16.5 million, which is applied against royalties otherwise due from JLP Daisy for sales of dELiA*s branded merchandise. The initial term of the master license agreement was approximately 10 years, which was extended and, at our option, (i) will remain in effect until JLP Daisy recoups its advance and preferred return or (ii) the term will immediately expire and JLP Daisy will be entitled to be paid the balance of any unrecouped advance and a preferred return calculated at 6% per year (if not already received). As of February 1, 2014, JLP Daisy has not recouped its advance and preferred return and therefore the master license agreement remains in effect. As part of the master license agreement, dELiA*s Brand, LLC granted to JLP Daisy a security interest in the dELiA*s trademarks and copyrightable artwork, although the only event that would entitle JLP Daisy to exercise its rights in respect of the lien is a termination or rejection of the license or the master license agreement in a bankruptcy proceeding. If we become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, we could lose the rights to our dELiA*s trademarks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Additionally, because sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees have been significantly less than we and JLP Daisy expected when we entered into the master license agreement, we expect that JLP Daisy may try to increase the sales of the dELiA*s branded products by its licensees by expanding the number of licensed products their licensees offer, the number and type of stores in which such licensed products are sold, or both, so that they can recoup more of their initial advance. Sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees may negatively impact our customers’ image of the brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and other operating results. Additionally, a change in our customers’ image of the brand due to sales of dELiA*s branded products by JLP Daisy’s licensees to greater numbers of retailers may negatively affect our dELiA*s retail store expansion plans. We depend largely upon an outsourced call center and a single distribution facility. The call center function is outsourced to a third party for our dELiA*s e-commerce website and catalog. The distribution for our dELiA*s e-commerce website and catalog and all our retail stores are handled from a single, owned facility in Hanover, Pennsylvania. Any significant interruption in the operation of the call center function or distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures, expansion or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to receive orders and distribute merchandise to our customers and retail stores, which could cause our sales to decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results. 19 Table of Contents We have recorded impairment charges in the past and we may be required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or at any time when certain events occur, which could impact the value and earnings of our business segments. Our determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the assets’ fair market values with the assets’ carrying values. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $4.5 million related to our direct marketing reporting unit in fiscal 2012. Additionally, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to recognize an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists (i.e., a triggering event) comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If a determination is made that a long-lived asset’s carrying value is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to estimated fair value, if lower. The determination of fair value of long-lived assets is generally based on estimated expected discounted future cash flows, which is generally measured by discounting expected future cash flows identifiable with the long-lived asset at our weighted-average cost of capital. We have recognized impairment charges of approximately $3.5 million in fiscal 2013, $0.2 million in fiscal 2012, and $0.5 million in fiscal 2011 related to underperforming store locations. If our manufacturers and importers are unable to produce our proprietary-branded goods on time or to our specifications, we could suffer lost sales. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and, therefore, depend upon independent third party vendors for the manufacture of all of our branded products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by domestic manufacturers and importers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, labor disputes and acts of terrorism that might affect the ability of a manufacturer or importer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. Late delivery of products or delivery of products that do not meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers or delay timely delivery of merchandise to our retail stores for those items. These events could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, cause our customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, which could result in lost sales. There are risks of obtaining products from third parties. Our business depends largely on the ability of third-party vendors and their subcontractors or suppliers to provide us with current-season, brand-name apparel and other merchandise at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities, manufactured in compliance with all applicable laws and of acceptable quality. We do not have any long-term contracts with any vendor and are not likely to enter into these contracts in the foreseeable future. In addition, many of the vendors that we use are factored and have limited resources, production capacities, and operating histories. Additionally, because the fashion market is volatile and customer taste tends to change rapidly, we must, in order to be successful, identify and obtain merchandise from new third-party brands for which our customers show a preference. As a result, we are subject to the following risks: • our vendors may fail or be unable to expand with us; • our current vendor terms may be changed to require increased payments or letters of credit in advance of delivery, and we may not be able to fund such payments through our current credit facility, cash balances, or our cash flow; • we may not be able to identify or obtain products from new “hot” brands preferred by our customers; and • our ability to procure products in sufficient quantities, at acceptable prices, may be limited. 20 Table of Contents We believe, based on the country of origin tags that appear on the products we sell, that a substantial portion of the products sold to us by our third-party vendors and domestic importers are produced in factories located in foreign countries, especially in China and other Asian countries. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including, but not limited to, the imposition of import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. Many of our and our vendor’s imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia or elsewhere. We and our vendors compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Our and our vendors’ businesses are also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as political instability, currency and exchange risks, disruption of imports by labor disputes (both in other countries and in the United States) and local business practices. Ours and our vendors’ foreign sourcing operations may also be hurt by political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters or acts of war or terrorism. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could increase our costs. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods and, accordingly, on our results of operations. The prices for those fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, including cotton. The price and availability of these raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including, among other things, crop yields and weather patterns. In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, and we expect this trend to continue. The cost of transportation has been increasing as well and, if the price of oil remains at current levels or increases, that cost pressure will continue. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of higher raw materials prices, labor or transportation costs on to our customers, which could adversely affect our gross margin and our results of operations. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism have disrupted commerce and have intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and/or mall traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from foreign manufacturers. Our inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign manufacturers or substitute other manufacturers, at similar costs and in a timely manner, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Weather conditions where our customers are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters, particularly in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. Uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, 21 Table of Contents rainstorms or other significant weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Natural disasters in areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution center, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution center and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. We must effectively manage our vendors to minimize inventory risk and maintain our margins. We seek to avoid maintaining high inventory levels in an effort to limit the risk of outdated merchandise and inventory write-downs. If we underestimate quantities demanded by our customers and our vendors cannot restock, then we may disappoint customers who may then turn to our competitors. We require many of our vendors to meet minimum restocking requirements, but if our vendors cannot meet these requirements and we cannot find alternate vendors, we could be forced to carry more inventory than we have in the past or we could have a loss in sales. Our risk of inventory write-downs would increase if we were to hold large inventories of merchandise that prove to be unpopular. We may be required to collect sales tax on our direct marketing operations. With respect to the direct sales, sales or other similar taxes are collected primarily in states where we have retail stores, another physical presence or personal property. However, various states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct mail companies. A successful assertion by one or more states that we or one or more of our subsidiaries should have collected or should be collecting sales taxes on the direct sale of our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could face liability from, or our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected by, government and private actions concerning personally identifiable data, including privacy. Our direct marketing business is subject to federal and state laws regarding the collection, maintenance and disclosure of personally identifiable information we collect and maintain in our database. If we do not comply, we could become subject to liability. While these provisions do not currently unduly restrict our ability to operate our business, if those regulations become more restrictive, they could adversely affect our business. In addition, laws or regulations that could impair our ability to collect and use user names and other information on the e-commerce website may adversely affect our business. For example, COPPA currently limits our ability to collect personal information from website visitors who may be under age 13. Further, claims could also be based on other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. If we violate any of these laws, we could face civil penalties. In addition, the attorneys general of various states review company websites and their privacy policies from time to time. In particular, an attorney general may examine such privacy policies to assure that the policies overtly and explicitly inform users of the manner in which the information they provide will be used and disclosed by the Company. If one or more attorneys general were to determine that our privacy policies fail to conform with state law, we also could face fines or civil penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. We could face liability for information displayed in our catalogs or displayed on or accessible via e-commerce website and our other websites. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other theories relating to the information we publish in any of our catalogs, on our e-commerce website and on any of our other websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against similar companies in the past. Based upon links we provide to third-party websites, we could also be subjected to claims based upon online content we do not control that is accessible from our e-commerce website. 22 Table of Contents We may be liable for misappropriation of our customers’ personal information. If third parties or unauthorized employees of ours are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or credit card information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or credit card information, we could be subject to claims of liability. These claims could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, or negligence claims. This potential liability could also include claims for other misuse of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. Liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, the FTC and state agencies have been investigating various internet companies regarding their use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptology or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect customer transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could subject us to claims of liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to significantly reduce the risk of security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to claims of liability, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand and cause our sales to decline. Government regulation of the internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business. We are subject to regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of our internet or e-commerce services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of e-commerce payment services, and consumer protection. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the on-line demand for our products and services and increase our costs of doing business. We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. These may relate to, for example, trademark, servicemark, copyright or other intellectual property matters, employment law matters, commercial disputes, consumer protection claims, claims of regulatory authorities, or other matters. In addition, as a public company we could from time to time face claims relating to corporate or securities law matters. In connection with such litigation, we may be subject to significant damages or equitable remedies. Any of such litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, could be costly and time consuming and could divert management and key personnel from our regular business operations. We do not currently believe that any of our outstanding litigation will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. However, due to the uncertainty of litigation and depending on the amount and the timing of any claims, an unfavorable resolution of such claims could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Many of our vendors utilize factors and therefore require letters of credit. All or a portion of the credit extended by factors to our vendors often is collateralized by standby letters of credit, which we are required to provide and which we currently obtain under our Letter of Credit Agreement dated as of June 14, 2013, as amended (the “Letter of Credit Agreement”), with General Electric Capital Corporation (“GE Capital”). Any increases in the amount of such letters of credit required by such factors reduces the amount of availability we have under our Letter of Credit Agreement with GE Capital. Any increase in our vendors’ use of factors or decrease in the amount of credit extended by these factors could require us to provide additional standby letters of credit, thereby reducing further the amount of availability, or require us to obtain increased credit lines which may or may not be readily available to us on acceptable terms. Any such decreases could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, including requiring us to reduce other discretionary spending, such as on advertising. Any such event could result in reduced sales. Our ability to procure merchandise could be adversely affected by changes in our vendors’ factoring arrangements. Although we do not have a direct relationship with factors, a portion of our vendors who supply us with merchandise have direct factoring arrangements. Vendors who engage in factoring transactions will typically sell their accounts receivable to a factor at a discount in exchange for cash payments, which can be used to finance the business and operations of the vendors. If the financial condition of our vendors’ factors were to deteriorate and those vendors were unable to procure alternative factoring arrangements, our ability to timely procure merchandise for our stores could be adversely affected. This also could require the devotion of significant time and attention by our management to adequately resolve such matters. In turn, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Our Credit Agreement with Salus, the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Notes issued in the Private Placement include covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict the manner in which we conduct our business under certain circumstances. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or limit our ability to, among other things: • grant liens on assets; • merge, consolidate, dissolve or liquidate; • incur certain additional indebtedness and guaranty obligations; • make certain restricted payments (including make dividend payments on our common stock); • make certain investments or acquisitions; • engage in certain sales (including certain sales of stock); and • pay dividends. Until all of the Notes issued in the Private Placement have been converted, redeemed or otherwise satisfied in accordance with their terms, we have agreed, among other things, not to (i) incur any indebtedness, other than pursuant to our existing Credit Agreement; and (ii) grant liens on our assets, other than the liens securing our and our subsidiaries’ obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other liens that are permitted under the Credit Agreement. If we fail to comply with the covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result, and Salus or the holders of the Notes, as the case may be, could declare outstanding borrowings or the Notes, as the case may be, immediately due and payable. If Salus were to declare a default, we cannot guarantee that we would have sufficient liquidity at that time to repay or refinance borrowings under the Credit Agreement. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement is subject to various conditions precedent. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time we require the drawdowns. Pursuant to a private placement Securities Purchase Agreement (“Securities Purchase Agreement”), so long as Valinor Management, LLC (the “Lead Investor”) or Flatbush Watermill LLC (“Flatbush”), as the case may be, beneficially owns at least 10% of our common stock (on an as-converted basis), we are subject to certain restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict or limit our ability to take the following actions without the prior written consent of the Lead Investor and/or Flatbush, as the case may be: • if all accrued dividends on the Preferred Stock have not been paid in full, declare or pay dividends on, or repurchase or redeem, any shares of our capital stock, subject to certain exceptions; • authorize, create or issue any class or series of our capital stock that ranks senior or in parity with the Preferred Stock, including any additional Preferred Stock; • commence any voluntary liquidation, bankruptcy, dissolution, recapitalization, reorganization, assignment to creditors or similar transaction; • incur any additional indebtedness, other than indebtedness under or as permitted under our Credit Agreement with Salus and the Letter of Credit Agreement with GE Capital; • grant liens on our assets, other than liens under or as permitted under our Credit Agreement with Salus and our Letter of Credit Agreement with GE Capital; • increase the size of the number of directors comprising our board of directors to more than nine members; • amend our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws in a manner that materially and adversely affects the rights or voting powers of the Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions; • enter into any transaction with any person or entity whose beneficial ownership of our voting securities is at least 10% or a director of our Company, subject to certain exceptions; or • remove or replace Tracy Gardner as our chief executive officer for reasons other than cause, resignation, death or disability. Additionally, so long as the Lead Investor or Flatbush, as the case may be, beneficially owns at least 15% of our common stock (on an as-converted basis), we are subject to certain restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict or limit our ability to engage in, or agree to, the following transactions without the prior written consent of the Lead Investor and/or Flatbush, as the case may be: • a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • a merger or consolidation of our Company; or • a recapitalization or reorganization of our Company involving consideration in excess of $25 million. We may not have the cash necessary to pay the dividends on the Preferred Stock. Holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors of the Company, out of any funds legally available therefor, dividends per share of Preferred Stock in an amount equal to 6.0% per annum of the stated value per share. The first date on which dividends are payable is February 18, 2015, and, thereafter, dividends are payable semi-annually in arrears on February 18 and August 18 of each year. Dividends, whether or not declared, begin to accrue and be cumulative from February 18, 2014. If we do not pay any dividend in full on any scheduled dividend payment date, then dividends thereafter will accrue at an annual rate of 8.0% of the stated value of the Preferred Stock from such scheduled dividend payment date to the date that all accumulated dividends on the Preferred Stock have been paid in cash in full. In addition, if we do not meet minimum borrowing availability tests under our Credit Agreement with Salus, we may not pay dividends on 25 Table of Contents the Preferred Stock. No assurance can be given that we will have the cash or financial resources available to us to make these payments, in whole or in part, or that we will meet the minimum borrowing availability tests under our Credit Agreement with Salus. Any failure to make such payments could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks, or the inability for us to continue to use any current trademarks, could diminish the value of our brands and have a negative impact on our business. We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The potential consolidation of commercial and retail landlords could negatively impact us. Continued consolidation in the commercial retail real estate market could affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rental terms for our stores in the future. Should significant consolidation continue, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to their significant negotiating leverage. If we are unable to negotiate favorable rental terms with these entities, this could affect our ability to profitably operate our stores, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have potential business conflicts with Alloy, LLC with respect to our past and ongoing relationships. On December 19, 2005, Alloy, LLC completed the Spinoff of all of the outstanding common stock of dELiA*s, Inc. to its stockholders. In connection with the Spinoff, Alloy, LLC contributed and transferred to us substantially all of its assets and liabilities related to its direct marketing and retail store segments. We entered into various agreements with Alloy, LLC prior to or in connection with the Spinoff. These agreements govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Alloy, LLC and us following the Spinoff. Certain of these agreements expired by their terms on December 19, 2010. We subsequently entered into certain amended and restated agreements effective December 20, 2010 which expire on December 20, 2015. Potential business conflicts may arise between Alloy, LLC and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, pending litigation, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Alloy, LLC; • intellectual property matters; • joint database ownership and management; and • the nature, quantity, quality, time of delivery and pricing of services we supply to each other under our various agreements with Alloy, LLC. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts. Even if we do so, however, because Alloy, LLC will be performing a number of services and functions for us, they will have leverage with negotiations over their performance that may result in a resolution of such conflicts that may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with another third party. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income are subject to certain limitations. We are limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. At February 1, 2014, we had available U.S. federal NOLs of approximately $119 million. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. If we receive Stockholder Approval of the conversion of the Notes to Preferred Stock, we believe that we may experience an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code on the Stockholder Approval Date as a result of the Private Placement and both the public offering and private placement we completed on July 31, 2013. As a result of these transactions, we may be limited in our ability to utilize our NOLs as an offset against future taxable income. Consequently, some or all of our NOLs may expire before they can be utilized. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including this or future offerings, as well as other changes that may be outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. The price of our common stock may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, it is possible that our future results of operations may be below the expectations of investors and, to the extent our Company is followed by securities analysts, the expectations of these analysts. If this occurs, our stock price may decline. Other factors that could affect our stock price include the following: • the perceived prospects of our business and the teenage market as a whole; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, if any; • fashion trends; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • actions or announcements by our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • litigation developments; and • changes in general economic or market conditions or other economic factors unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock markets can experience significant price and trading volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention. Provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and by-laws and stockholder rights plan may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in the Delaware corporation law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and board of directors oppose. Public stockholders that might wish to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions: • reserving to our board of directors the exclusive right to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on our board of directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors; 27 Table of Contents • authorizing the issuance of up to 25 million shares of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control; • establishing advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; and • generally requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least 70% of the outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, which could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may prevent a change in control or sale of us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and board of directors. We have a significant number of options, Preferred Stock and Notes outstanding which, if exercised or converted, would dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders and adversely affect earnings per share. As of April 11, 2014, we had outstanding options, of which 1,177,454 were vested, to purchase 3,418,538 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.81 per share. From time to time, we may issue additional options to employees, non-employee directors and consultants pursuant to our equity incentive plans. We have sold in the Private Placement to the selling stockholders (i) 199,834 shares of Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $19,983,400, which shares of Preferred Stock are convertible into 24,979,250 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.80 per share, and (ii) an aggregate of $24,116,600 in principal amount of Notes, which Notes are convertible into 241,166 shares of our Preferred Stock following Stockholder Approval. The shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes are convertible into 30,145,750 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.80 per share. Our stockholders will experience dilution if these stock options, shares of Preferred Stock and Notes are exercised or converted, as applicable. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of Nasdaq, our common stock may be delisted, which may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. Nasdaq has requirements we must meet in order to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, including that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share of our common stock. On January 31, 2014, we received a notification letter from The NASDAQ OMX Group (“Nasdaq”) indicating that the bid price of our common stock for the last 30 consecutive business days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). We have been provided a period of 180 calendar days, or until July 30, 2014, to regain compliance. The letter states that the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we have regained compliance if at any time before July 30, 2014, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. As of the close of the market on March 11, 2014, our common stock closed at $1.00 per share or more for ten consecutive business days. Consequently, we received a notification letter from Nasdaq on March 13, 2014 advising us that we are now in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). However, since March 24, 2014, the closing bid price of our common stock has been below $1.00 per share. If we become non-compliant again in the future, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market and transferred to a listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or delisted from Nasdaq altogether. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the requirements for listing our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market, or we would be eligible for transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market and remain in compliance with the requirements for listing on that market. The failure to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market or to qualify for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market could have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of our shares of common stock. 28 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Further, we are prohibited under the terms of the Credit Agreement from paying dividends on our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends on our common stock in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. If our common stock does not appreciate in value, or if our common stock loses value, our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment in our shares. Future sales of our common stock or the issuance of other equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Following the Stockholder Approval Date and subject to certain preemptive rights of the selling stockholders pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, we are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Issuances of our common stock or convertible securities will dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is an equity security and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. The shares of common stock are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the shares of common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims on us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceeding. Further, the common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to stockholders generally. We may incur a material expense upon the conversion of the Notes issued in the Private Placement. The Notes issued in the Private Placement are mandatorily convertible following Stockholder Approval. If at the time of the conversion of the Notes, the market price of our common stock is above the conversion price of the Notes, we will incur a non-cash charge in an amount equal to the difference between the market price of our common stock at the time of conversion and the conversion price of the Notes. Such a charge could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 