Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO CERTAIN RECENT EVENTS The Company is currently evaluating strategic alternatives and cannot predict the outcome of this process or the impact it may have on the Company’s operations. On February 27, 2012, we announced that we had retained Houlihan Lokey as financial advisor to assist the Company in evaluating strategic alternatives, including but not limited to, operating partnerships, joint ventures or a sale or merger of the Company. There can be no assurance that the evaluation of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction being announced or completed. The process of evaluating strategic alternatives and effecting a transaction, including a sale of the Company, may result in a diversion of management’s time and resources, the inability to retain and attract key employees, and the disruption of our business operations. We could face adverse consequences as a result of the actions of activist stockholders. An activist stockholder group consisting of Kleinheinz Capital Partners, Meson Capital Partners, Boston Avenue Capital and certain of their affiliates (the “Kleinheinz Dissident Group”) is seeking to gain control of the Board of Directors of the Company. The Kleinheinz Dissident Group has circulated to stockholders a consent solicitation requesting written agent designations from our stockholders to enable them to call a special meeting of stockholders to consider the removal of our current Board of Directors without cause, and to replace the Board with individuals nominated by the Kleinheinz Dissident Group. On February 27, 2012, the Kleinheinz Dissident Group delivered documentation to the Company purporting to contain agent designations from a majority of stockholders and demanding that the Company call a special meeting. In addition, on February 27, 2012, the Kleinheinz Dissident Group delivered notice to the Company stating its intention to nominate a competing slate for election to our Board of Directors at the Company’s regular 2012 annual meeting. On March 5, 2012 the Company announced that it had determined that the demand for a call of a special meeting met the Company’s by-law requirement. The Company cannot predict the outcome of this matter at this time. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the Kleinheinz Dissident Group’s actions because: • responding to consent solicitations and proxy contests in other actions by activist stockholders is costly and time consuming, and may disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees; • the uncertainty and negative publicity resulting from the activities of the Kleinheinz Dissident Group could make it more difficult for us to complete our evaluation of strategic alternatives, and it can impact our ability to attract new employees, retain current employees, and attract and retain customers, suppliers and business partners. 7 Table of Contents In addition, if the Kleinheinz Dissident Group were to be successful in obtaining control of our Board of Directors, the resulting change in control would constitute an event of default under our Credit Facility with Bank of America, N.A., and KeyBank National Association. This would allow the lenders to accelerate the maturity of all debt outstanding under that agreement. Furthermore, a change in control of the Company would cause certain restricted stock grants to vest immediately, which would result in significant compensation expense. In addition, the Company would be required to reclassify its debt as a current liability unless a waiver of such covenant violation was obtained and to reassess the recoverability of its intangible assets and deferred tax assets. Finally, the Kleinheinz Dissident Group has stated that, if successful, it intends to ask the Company to reimburse its expenses in connection with its activities. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We are dependent on our Medicare Supplier Number. We are required to have a Medicare Supplier Number in order to bill Medicare for services provided to Medicare patients. Furthermore, all third party and Medicaid contracts require us to have a Medicare Supplier Number. In addition, we are required to comply with Medicare Supplier Standards in order to maintain such number. If we are unable to comply with the relevant standards, we could lose our Medicare Supplier Number. The loss of such identification number for any reason would prevent us from billing Medicare for patients who rely on Medicare to pay their medical expenses and, as a result, we would experience a decrease in our revenues. Without such a number, we would be unable to continue our various third party and Medicaid contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon our Medicare Supplier Number. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) has issued a ruling that all durable medical equipment (“DME”) providers must be accredited by a recognized accrediting entity by September 30, 2009. On February 17, 2009, we initially received accreditation from the Community Health Accreditation Program (“CHAP”) and we were recertified in February 2012, thus meeting this CMS requirement. If we lost our accredited status, our financial condition, revenues and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in third-party reimbursement rates may adversely impact our revenues. Our revenues are substantially dependent on third-party reimbursement. We are paid directly by private insurers and governmental agencies, often on a fixed fee basis, for continuous infusion equipment and related disposable supplies provided to patients. If the average fees allowable by private insurers or governmental agencies were reduced, the negative impact on revenues could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, if amounts owed to us by patients and insurers are reduced or not paid on a timely basis, we may be required to increase our bad debt expense and/or decrease our revenues. Any change in the overall healthcare reimbursement system may adversely impact our business. Changes in the healthcare reimbursement system often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance of continuous infusion therapy may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the healthcare reimbursement system. Changes to the health care reimbursement system that favor other technologies or treatment regimens that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities that use our services may adversely affect our ability to market our services profitably. Our success is impacted by the availability of the chemotherapy drugs that are used in our continuous infusion pump systems. We primarily derive our revenue from the rental of ambulatory infusion pumps to oncology patients through physicians’ offices and chemotherapy clinics. A shortage in the availability of chemotherapy drugs that are used 8 Table of Contents in the continuous infusion pump system could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If future clinical studies demonstrate that oral medications are as effective as or more effective than continuous infusion therapy, our business could be adversely affected. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing, evaluating and comparing the therapeutic benefits of current continuous infusion-based regimens with various oral medication regimens. If these clinical trials demonstrate that oral medications provide equal or greater therapeutic benefits and/or demonstrate reduced side effects compared to prior oral medication regimens, our revenues and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if new oral medications are introduced to the market that are superior to existing oral therapies, physicians’ willingness to prescribe continuous infusion-based regimens could decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global financial conditions may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. The recent global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, as well as the uncertainty in global economic conditions, have resulted in a significant tightening of credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets and reduced corporate profits and capital spending. As a result, our customers (i.e., patients and payors) may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the current global financial crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The financial crisis could also adversely impact our ability to access the financial markets. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change. If we fail to comply with any state laws, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state and our business operations will be adversely affected. As a DME supplier operating in all 50 states of the United States, we are subject to each state’s licensure laws regulating DME suppliers. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change and we must ensure that we are continually in compliance with the laws of all 50 states. In the event that we fail to comply with any state’s laws governing the licensing of DME suppliers, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state until we regain compliance. We may also be subject to certain fines and/or penalties and our business operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes expanding into treatment for cancers other than colorectal. There can be no assurance that continuous infusion-based regimens for these other cancers will become standards of care for large numbers of patients or that we will be successful in penetrating these different markets. An aspect of our growth strategy is to expand into the treatment of other cancers, such as head, neck and gastric. Currently, relatively small percentages of these patients are treated with regimens that include continuous infusion therapy. That population will expand only if clinical trial results for new drugs and new combinations of drugs demonstrate superior outcomes for regimens that include continuous infusion therapy relative to alternatives. No assurances can be given that these new drugs and drug combinations will be approved or will prove superior to oral medication or other treatment alternatives. In addition, no assurances can be given that we will be able to penetrate successfully any new markets that may develop in the future or manage the growth in additional resources that would be required. 9 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors, our business operations may suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do for research and development, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our services may be superior. The industry is subject to technological changes and such changes may put our current fleet of pumps at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may materially suffer. Our industry is dependent on regulatory guidelines that affect our billing practices. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. Aggressive competitors may not fully comply with rules pertaining to documentation required by CMS and other payors for patient billing. Competitors who do not meet the same standards of compliance that we do with regards to billing regulations can, put us at a potential competitive disadvantage. We are a participating provider with Medicare and under contract with approximately 230 additional insurance plans, all of which have very stringent guidelines. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on independent suppliers for our products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of products, particularly our supply of electronic ambulatory pumps, may negatively impact our operations. Our infusion pumps are obtained from outside vendors. The majority of our new pumps are electronic ambulatory infusion pumps which are supplied to us by three major suppliers: Smiths Medical, Inc.; Hospira Worldwide, Inc.; and WalkMed Infusion, LLC (formerly known as McKinley Medical, LLC). The loss or disruption of our relationships with outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of pumps to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of pumps could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. Our inability to provide pumps to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we do not manufacture the products we distribute, if one of the products distributed by us proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner or patient, we may be subject to liability that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not manufacture the pumps that we distribute, a defect in the design or manufacture of a pump distributed by us, or a failure of pumps distributed by us to perform for the use specified, could have a material effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of the pumps distributed by us by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject us to liability. Any substantial underinsured loss could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material effect on our revenues and prospects for future business. Unexpected costs or delays in integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our financial results. We may make acquisitions going forward. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations. We may encounter difficulties that could harm the businesses, adversely affect our financial condition and cause our stock price to decline, including the following: • We may have difficulty or experience delays in integrating the business and operations; • We may have difficulty maintaining employee morale and retaining key managers and other employees as we take steps to combine the personnel and business cultures of separate organizations into one and to eliminate duplicate positions and functions; and 10 Table of Contents • We may have difficulty preserving important relationships with others, such as strategic partners, customers, and suppliers, who may delay or defer decisions on agreements with us, or seek to change existing agreements with us, because of the acquisition. The integration process may divert the attention of our officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt our business, particularly if we encounter these types of difficulties. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in the integration process could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm our results of operations. Even if the operations are integrated successfully, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities, whether within the anticipated time frame, or anytime in the future. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting at our First Biomedical location may have an adverse impact on the Company. As outlined under 9A “Controls and Procedures” in this Report, our management has identified a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting relating to limited finance staff levels that are not commensurate with the Company’s increased complexity and its financial account and reporting requirements in light of the Company’s continued growth. While the Company has taken steps to remediate this material weakness by implementing new procedures and controls at its corporate office, these new procedures and internal controls have not been fully implemented at our First Biomedical office location. Our management intends to initiate measures to remediate the identified material weakness at the First Biomedical office by implementing the procedures and internal controls that were implemented at the corporate office at the First Biomedical office. The continued existence of this material weakness could have a material impact on the Company, and the remediation will result in additional costs. We intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Future strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities to us. We intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Any future strategic alliances, joint ventures or acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable partners or acquisition candidates, as the case may be, negotiate acceptable terms for such transactions and obtain financing, if necessary. We also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates which may increase our costs. Acquisitions or other investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Any future acquisitions of businesses could also expose us to unanticipated liabilities. If we engage in strategic acquisitions, we may experience significant costs and difficulty in assimilating operations or personnel, which could threaten our future growth. If we make any acquisitions, we could have difficulty assimilating operations, technologies and products or integrating or retaining personnel of acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions may involve entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition, pursuing acquisition opportunities could divert our management’s attention from our ongoing business operations and result in decreased operating performance. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization of intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. 11 Table of Contents Covenants in our debt agreement restrict our business. The credit agreement that governs our credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. and KeyBank National Association (“Credit Facility”) contains, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • Change of control, as defined by the agreement governing the Credit Facility. • Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any lien upon any of our property, assets or revenues; • Make certain investments; • Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any indebtedness; • Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • Make any disposition or enter into any agreement to make any disposition; and • Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any dividend or other restricted payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so. Healthcare changes in the United States and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. Pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among health care providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010, federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. However, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. In addition, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices scheduled to be implemented in 2013. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the legislation could have a material effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. If we fail to comply with applicable healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights may be applicable to our business. We may be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and patient 12 Table of Contents privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • The federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce (i) the referral of an individual, for an item or service, or (ii) the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • Federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us that promote medical devices, provide medical device management services and may provide coding and billing advice to customers; • The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ in significant ways from state to state and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, Maine, and Minnesota, requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Federal legislation, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act (“PPSA”), was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPSA requires manufacturers of drug, device, biologics, and medical supplies covered under Medicare, Medicaid, or State Children’s Health Insurance Program (“SCHIP”) to report payments made to physicians on an annual basis to the department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”). HHS in turn will post this information on a public website. These laws all provide for penalties for non-compliance. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may run afoul of one or more laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. We are dependent on key personnel, and the loss of any key employees or officers may have a materially adverse effect on our operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel who generally have extensive experience in our industry. Our future success also will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, finance, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of any key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC, banking regulators, and our independent registered public accounting firm. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, or financial condition. RISK FACTORS RELATING SPECIFICALLY TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to remain, volatile and may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of healthcare services companies, including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that appear unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • Announcements of technological innovations, new products, or clinical studies by others; • Government regulation; • Changes in the coverage or reimbursement rates of private insurers and governmental agencies; • Announcements regarding new products or services or strategic alliances or acquisitions; • Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • The liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Changes in health care policies in the United States or globally; • Global financial conditions; and • Comments by securities analysts and general market conditions. The realization of any risks described in these “Risk Factors” could also have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. Under the terms of our credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and KeyBank National Association, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we do not pay dividends. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition to the shares of our common stock currently available for sale in the public market, shares of our common stock sold in past private placements (which include shares held by certain members of our Board of Directors) may be sold in the public market. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. 14 Table of Contents Certain anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), as well as our stockholders rights plan, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the DGCL contain certain anti-takeover provisions, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our stockholders may consider favorable and, as a result, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 1.0 million shares of blank check preferred stock. Our amended and restated bylaws include provisions establishing advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and director nominations and permitting only stockholders holding at least a majority of our outstanding common stock to call a special meeting. Additionally, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the DGCL, which, among other things, and subject to various exceptions, restricts certain business transactions between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock (“an interested stockholder”) for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan. This plan would cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 