ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our failure to obtain approvals under the regulations promulgated under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law will negatively impact our growth strategy. Notwithstanding our receipt of an Operator of Mobile Gaming Systems license by the Nevada Gaming Commission, the regulations promulgated under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law require us to obtain specific approval of our mobile gaming devices for use in Nevada casinos. If we are unable to obtain or maintain approval of our mobile gaming platform as required by the regulations, we will be unable to manufacture, distribute and operate wireless player terminals that enable casino players to play casino games in public areas of gaming establishments as permitted by the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law which would have a material adverse affect on our business and operations. Our inability to comply fully, or at all, with the mobile gaming regulations may result in substantial additional development costs and preclude us from executing our growth strategy. The regulations require that our mobile gaming systems be approved by the Nevada Gaming Lab before we may distribute these systems to Nevada casinos. The Nevada Gaming Lab may impose significant requirements on the functionality or design of mobile gaming systems that may be manufactured, distributed or operated in Nevada. To the extent that our existing mobile gaming platform may not comply with such requirements, we would need to undertake additional research and development activities that may be costly, time consuming or require the procurement of components that are scarce in supply. Despite undertaking additional research and development activities, we may not be able to design or develop a mobile gaming platform that complies with the standards adopted by the Nevada Gaming Lab, in which case we would be unable to manufacture, distribute or operate wireless player terminals that enable casino players to play traditional casino games in the public areas of gaming establishments permitted under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, and therefore be unable to fully execute our growth strategy. Our failure to maintain our current licenses and regulatory approvals or failure to maintain or obtain licenses or approvals for our gaming devices in any jurisdiction will prevent us from operating in that jurisdiction and possibly other jurisdictions, leading to reduced overall revenue. As a manufacturer, distributor and operator of gaming platforms, we currently hold licenses in a number of jurisdictions, including Nevada. Our officers, including our major stockholder, Yuri Itkis, are required to obtain and maintain licenses, permits and other forms of approval in certain jurisdictions. Our CFO, Kevin Karo, has applied for, but has not yet received, a finding of suitability as a corporate officer with various gaming authorities. We are under continuous scrutiny by the applicable regulatory authorities. Our officers’ current regulatory approvals may be revoked, suspended or curtailed at any time. Our officers’ failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. The failure to maintain a license in a single jurisdiction or a denial of a license by any new jurisdiction may cause a negative “domino effect” in which the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could lead to regulatory investigation and possible loss of a license in other jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions also require licenses, permits or other forms of approval for specific gaming devices. If other jurisdictions adopt mobile gaming laws, these approval requirements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the license, permit and approval process may be costly and more difficult to obtain that the licenses we have obtained in Nevada pursuant to the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law. As a general matter, the regulatory approval of devices involving traditional casino games is more difficult to obtain than those for bingo products. Some jurisdictions require the regulatory approval of entities and individuals before the pursuit of regulatory approval of specific gaming devices, but other jurisdictions allow the pursuit of such regulatory approvals concurrently. Although we and the individuals associated with us may obtain regulatory approval in a particular jurisdiction, we may not be able to manufacture, distribute or operate our mobile gaming platforms in that jurisdiction without separate and specific regulatory approval of our mobile gaming platform. Any failure of our gaming platform to meet the requirements for approval or to obtain the approval in any jurisdiction will cause us to not be able to distribute our gaming platforms in the jurisdiction which would have a material adverse affect upon our business and operations. If we are unable to retain our senior employees or attract other key personnel our operations may suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our key personnel. We depend heavily on the ability and experience of a small number of senior executives who have experience with our operations and the electronic 17 gaming device industry, including Yuri Itkis, our CEO and Chairman of the board of directors; Kevin A. Karo, our CFO; Jack Coronel, our CMO and Director of Compliance and Strategic Development; and Boris Itkis, our CTO, Vice President of Engineering and member of the Company’s board of directors. The loss of any of these senior executives or the failure of any of these senior executives to obtain or maintain the requisite regulatory licenses, permits or determination of suitability may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada gaming authorities may disapprove a change in a corporate position, such as a change in job title or substantive job responsibilities. Any such disapproval would prevent us from redeploying our senior executive talent in new functional roles even if management desires to do so. A loss of one of our senior executives due to a finding of disapproval from the Nevada gaming authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain key marketing personnel and key managers as we further develop our products and as we enter new markets and expand in existing markets. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for 2006 and 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting arising from the current level of staffing in our accounting department; to augment our staffing with qualified individuals on a timely basis may not remediate this significant deficiency. Due to licensing requirements of these personnel that may be imposed by gaming authorities, our pool of potential employees may be more limited than in other industries. Competition for individuals with the skills required is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting such personnel. In addition, we may not be able to retain such individuals as they may leave our company and go to work for our competitors. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely heavily on a corporate culture of lean staffing. While helpful to our efforts to contain our costs, our lean staffing exposes us to increased risks of internal control deficiencies and increased harm upon employee departures. Our failure to retain and extend our existing contracts with customers and to win new customers would negatively impact our operations. All of our lease contracts relate to our electronic bingo products. In 2007 we derived 99% of our revenues and cash flow from our portfolio of contracts to lease electronic bingo products to gaming establishments, such as casinos, and bingo halls. Our contracts are typically for a term ranging from one to three years in duration and several are on a month-to-month basis. Not all of our contracts preclude our customers from using bingo devices of our competitors. Upon the expiration of one of our contracts, a gaming establishment may award a contract through a competitive procurement process, in which we may be unsuccessful in winning the new contract or forced to reduce the price that we charge the gaming establishment in order to renew our contract. In addition, some of our contracts permit gaming establishments to terminate the contract at any time for our failure to perform and for other specified reasons. The termination of or failure to renew or extend one or more of our contracts, or the renewal or extension of one or more of our contracts on materially altered terms could, depending upon the circumstances, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results and prospects. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from direct sales to our customers, or house accounts, which we service ourselves, without any involvement of outside distributors. Although such accounts typically involve higher profit margins, the competition for these accounts is very keen. We typically negotiate one to three year, automatically renewable leases for our bingo units with our direct customers. The house account contracts tend to be challenging to maintain and enforce, especially those with tribal gaming operators, and therefore, we may not be able to retain lucrative house accounts indefinitely. A loss of any such account may have a severe negative impact on our revenue. Losing any of our small number of independent distributors upon whom we depend for a significant portion of our revenue, or losing the business of a significant number of customers of those distributors, would negatively impact our operations. We are dependent upon a small number of independent distributors to market and sell our products to casinos and bingo halls. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 55% of our revenues were derived through seven distributors. During the same period, we derived approximately 34% of our revenue from our single largest distributor. Due to our payment of commissions to distributors, our customer contracts derived from distributors generate lower profit margins than our contracts derived from direct sales, or house accounts. Because we do not directly control our distributors or their customer intake practices, contracts with customers derived from distributors may be susceptible to higher default rates and lower profit margins than our house accounts. Some of our distributors are not contractually prohibited from marketing or selling products of our competitors. Our contracts with our distributors typically cover one to three year terms and are automatically renewed for one year unless terminated upon the expiration of the then current term. Upon the expiration of a contract term, we may not be able to renew any of these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our competitors may provide incentives to our distributors to market and sell their products in addition to or in lieu of ours. The loss of any of our 18 distributors or the loss of business from any customer of any of our distributors may result in a material reduction in our revenue, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Towards the end of 2007 and at the beginning of 2008, we lost a significant number of charitable bingo hall customer locations that were serviced through one of our distributors, and it is expected, based on 2007 revenues, that our revenues attributable to sales generated through this distributor for 2008 will be reduced by approximately $1,500,000. If other gaming jurisdictions do not adopt mobile gaming legislation similar to the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, or on any terms at all, we will be unable to implement our growth strategy outside of Nevada. Our ability to execute fully our growth strategy in jurisdictions other than Nevada depends upon other gaming jurisdictions adopting mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games. Currently, Nevada is the first and the only state to enact legislation authorizing mobile gaming for traditional casino games. Although we are not aware of any tribal gaming authority that has specifically prohibited mobile casino gaming involving traditional casino games, we are also not aware of any that have approved it, even though many tribal gaming authorities in practice allow mobile bingo gaming. The adoption of gaming legislation can be affected by a variety of political, social and public policy forces and gaming jurisdictions other than Nevada may not adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games in the foreseeable future. To the extent that other jurisdictions do adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games, we may not be able to comply fully with the legislation without incurring substantial additional development costs, or at all. If we are required to modify our mobile gaming platform to comply with such potential legislation, we may suffer the increased costs of maintaining multiple variants of our mobile gaming platform to comply with the differing legislation of different jurisdictions. If other gaming jurisdictions fail to adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games or we are unable to comply with such legislation without substantial additional costs, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy. Our failure to obtain gaming licenses or other regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions would preclude us from expanding our operations into and generating revenue from these jurisdictions. The manufacture and distribution of gaming devices are subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Some jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most jurisdictions require licenses, permits or other forms of approval of the manufacturers, distributors and operators of gaming devices, including evidence of financial stability, and of the suitability of their officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees. The regulatory agencies conduct in-depth investigations of gaming device manufacturer licensees as well as detailed personal background checks of key employees and major stockholders of the licensees. Obtaining requisite approvals of state and tribal gaming authorities is a time-consuming and costly process. Even after incurring significant time and expense in seeking regulatory approvals, we may not be able to obtain them. Our failure or the failure of our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our products and generating revenue in that jurisdiction. We operate in a highly competitive industry and expect the market for mobile gaming devices to become increasingly competitive, which may negatively affect our operations and our ability to maintain relationships with gaming establishments. The market for gaming devices generally is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify as the market for mobile gaming devices develops. We currently compete with other providers of electronic bingo products, such as VKGS, LLC, or Video King, formerly a division of BK Entertainment Corp., GameTech International, Inc., the recently merged Planet Bingo, LLC and Melange Computer Services, Inc., Blue Dog, Inc. Electronic Game Solutions, Inc. and California Concepts, Inc. in the marketing of our BingoStar wireless bingo systems. Although none of our competitors that manufacture mobile bingo devices is currently licensed in Nevada other than GameTech International, Inc., we may face competition from these providers in the market for mobile gaming devices in the future. Given the market penetration, name recognition, marketing resources and familiarity with the gaming device industry generally, traditional casino game device manufacturers could be a significant competitive threat to us. We expect fierce competition from multiple large competitors dominating their respective markets in our expansion efforts, such as Aristocrat Leisure, Ltd., International Game Technology, Alliance Gaming Corporation, WMS Gaming Inc. and Shuffle Master, Inc., that may enter the market for mobile gaming devices. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the gaming device market, such as Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a large financial services company that already offers wireless sports betting in the United Kingdom, and at least two other gaming technology companies, Chimera Technology Corp. and Diamond I, Inc. Finally, traditional casino operators, most of whom are much larger than us, may attempt to enter the emerging mobile gaming market. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers, proprietary technology, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more readily available access to capital that could allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. 19 Other providers of electronic bingo products have in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the prices of their products to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to reduce our prices or provide other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. A material reduction in the yield on our investment of the proceeds of our initial public offering and our retained earnings could materially and adversely affect our net income and earnings per share. Because we have not yet begun full-scale production of mobile gaming devices under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, we have invested the bulk of the proceeds of our initial public offering and retained earnings. Our net income and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2007 depended substantially on the yield that we achieved on these investments. Approximately 10% of our income before tax during 2007 resulted from these investments. Our primary investment objective is to preserve principal while maximizing yield without significantly increasing our risk. Our investments consist of non taxable auction rate securities, or ARS. Our investments totaled $25,125,000 at December 31, 2007. The ARS that we purchase consist of municipal bonds with maturities greater than five years and have credit ratings of at least AAA, and do not include mortgage-backed instruments. The auction process for ARS is intended, in part, to provide a liquid market for these securities. In the event of an auction failure, the interest rate on the security is reset according to the contractual terms in the underlying indenture. The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer calls or restructures the underlying security, the underlying security matures and is paid or a buyer outside the auction process emerges. The auction process for some of our ARS began to deteriorate during 2007, and during the first quarter of 2008, we began to reduce the principal amount of ARS in our portfolio. Although we did not suffer any auction failures of our ARS during 2007, a few of the ARS we hold experienced auction failures during the first quarter of 2008. As a result, when we attempted to liquidate some of our ARS through auction, we were unable to do so. We believe that the failed auctions that we have experienced during the first quarter of 2008 are not a result of the deterioration of the underlying credit quality of these securities, although valuation of them is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict, such as changes to credit ratings of the securities and/or the underlying assets supporting them, default rates applicable to the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. We believe that any unrealized gain or loss associated with these securities will be temporary and will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in our financial statements. The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2008. Continuation or acceleration of instability in these markets and/or deterioration in the ratings of our investments may affect our ability to liquidate these securities, and therefore may affect our financial condition, and cash flows. We believe that, based on our cash and cash equivalents balances in the first quarter of 2008, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flows, financial flexibility or ability to fund our obligations. We continue to monitor the market for our ARS and consider its impact (if any) on the fair market value of our investments. If the market conditions of the first quarter of 2008 continue, in which some auctions for ARS fail, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record unrealized losses or impairment charges in 2008. As auctions have closed successfully in 2008, we have converted our investments in ARS to money market funds. We believe we will have the ability to hold any ARS for which auctions fail until the market recovers. We do not anticipate having to sell these securities in order to operate our business. Although we have invested these proceeds in relatively conservative investments, based on the current market conditions, there can be no assurance that we will continue to enjoy the same yields on our investments as we did during 2007. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these investments will continue to generate a positive yield. Assuming no other changes in our sources of revenues, any decrease in the yield on these investments, and any loss on these investments, would directly reduce our revenues. Difficulties with the limited number of manufacturers and suppliers upon whom we rely for components of our products would negatively impact our production capacity, customer relationships and operations. We purchase most of the parts, components and subassemblies necessary for the manufacture of our products from outside sources. We assemble these parts, components and subassemblies into finished products in our manufacturing facility. While most of the parts, components and subassemblies are produced by more than one manufacturer and can be purchased through more than one supplier, we currently rely upon approximately 12 vendors from whom we purchase substantially all of our components. We currently obtain the touch screens for our wireless gaming terminals from a single supplier. While changing suppliers for this component is not impossible, doing so would require significant time and effort on the part of our engineering and management teams and may cause us to miss revenue generating opportunities until we are 20 able to obtain touch screen monitors from a new supplier. In addition, the supplies of the central processing units, memory and peripheral drives for our mobile gaming platforms are often uncertain and subject to significant backlogs from time to time due to spikes in general demand for such products. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third party manufacturers and suppliers of these and other components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. To procure certain parts, components and subassemblies, we sometimes commit to supply contracts in which we commit to purchase large quantities over extended periods of time. By doing so, we are exposed to a number of risks. If the market prices of these components drop below the prices at which we are committed to purchase them, our purchase commitments may preclude us from taking advantage of reductions in market prices. If the components are surpassed by superior technology that becomes available after we make our purchase commitments, our purchase commitments may preclude us from taking advantage of technological advancements. If a change in the design or specifications of our products results in a substitution or elimination of a component, we may be forced to write off a substantial quantity of obsolete inventory of components or to sell such components in the open market at a loss. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our components on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with customers and materially and adversely harm our business. For those components that we procure under supply contracts, if any of such supply contracts were to be terminated or breached, we may not be able to procure an alternate supply on terms as favorable to us in time, or at all. We may suffer lengthy delays in our manufacturing process while we seek to procure an alternate supply. A delay in our ability to manufacture products may adversely affect our goodwill with customers, expose us to liability to customers and result in the loss of business opportunities. Any alternate supply of parts, components or subassemblies may be more expensive to us or may require us to undertake additional engineering activities to integrate the alternate supply into our products or manufacturing process. Certain parts, components and subassemblies for our products are manufactured outside of the United States, which exposes us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations, political and economic instability and limited protection of intellectual property. If our wireless gaming terminals do not achieve and maintain widespread acceptance by gaming establishments and casino game players as a means to play traditional casino games, our business operations will not grow as anticipated. Our current business depends on the preferences of gaming establishment players that play bingo games, and our growth strategy depends on the preferences of gaming establishment players that play traditional casino games, such as poker, keno and slots. The tastes and preferences of players of bingo and traditional casino games are known to change over time. If the bingo games or traditional casino games that we enable gaming establishment players to play using our wireless gaming terminals do not appeal to players to the degree anticipated, our mobile gaming platforms will not be fully utilized and our business will suffer. The success of our growth strategy will depend to a large extent on broad market acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals among casinos and their players who play traditional casino games. The only market acceptance that our wireless gaming terminals currently enjoy is as a means to play bingo games electronically. Even if we are successful in deploying mobile gaming platforms that enable casino players to play traditional casino games, gaming establishments and their players may still not use our wireless gaming terminals for a number of reasons, including preference for live dealers, preference to play casino games in a traditional environment using traditional equipment, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. We believe that the acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals by gaming establishments and their players will depend on our ability to demonstrate the economic and other benefits of our products to gaming establishments, casino players becoming comfortable with using our wireless gaming terminals, the attractiveness of the casino games that players can play using our wireless gaming terminals, ease of use, and the reliability of the hardware and software that comprise our mobile gaming platforms. Initially, we intend to offer our customers equipment lease agreements under which we will lease our wireless gaming terminals and the associated equipment. However, if and when market acceptance of our wireless gaming platforms has been established, we may be required to sell wireless gaming platforms to customers rather than lease them because of the prevailing practices of casino operators to purchase rather than lease equipment. However, if our wireless gaming terminals fail to quickly achieve market acceptance as a means to play traditional casino games, our customers may not renew their leases or may not purchase our mobile gaming platforms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Any change in our business model from the lease of wireless gaming terminals to the sale of gaming terminals may result in an eventual reduction of our revenues. 21 We currently derive substantially all of our revenues by leasing our wireless gaming terminals and associated equipment to our gaming establishment customers. If and when market acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals is established, our gaming establishment customers may prefer to purchase our wireless gaming terminals rather than lease them. If we sell our wireless gaming terminals in the future, we must price them in a manner that reflects the ongoing lease revenues that leasing them generates. If we are unable to sell our wireless gaming terminals for a sales price in excess of the lease revenues that we would otherwise receive, our revenues may eventually decline. Our failure to comply with tribal regulation and tribal laws would preclude us from operating in tribal jurisdictions and deriving revenue there from. We are required to obtain licenses and approvals from tribal authorities in order to operate in tribal jurisdictions. When seeking approvals from or licensing with tribal-owned or tribal-controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses of our gaming platforms or licenses to operate on tribal lands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to enforce our contractual rights against tribal governments or agencies, which may negatively impact our operations. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience and tribal judiciaries are not always independent. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. Our inability to enforce our contract rights under tribal law could negatively impact our operations. Disrupted operation of our server-based gaming systems caused by the network infrastructure of the casinos in which they are installed would cause dissatisfaction among customers and gaming establishments and may harm our operating results. We expect to enter into agreements with customers that operate casinos and bingo halls in more than one location. In such cases, we anticipate that our agreements with such customers will provide that the customer will be responsible for providing, at its expense, a dedicated high-speed computer network connection between our server-based gaming systems in the various locations operated by the customer to a remote central gaming server supporting such systems. Failures or disruptions of a customer’s dedicated high-speed connection that result in the stoppage of play or in reduced performance of our server-based gaming system could disrupt players’ gaming experience, adversely affect the casinos’ or bingo halls’ satisfaction with our gaming devices, delay market acceptance of our mobile gaming platforms and harm our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our customers have to reserve, for our exclusive use, certain RF channels of adequate capacity to accommodate reliable and expedient wireless communication between our wireless player terminals and central game file servers. We expect to spend substantial amounts on research and development, but these efforts may fail or lead to operational problems that could negatively impact our operations. In order to compete effectively in an era of technological changes, we must continuously enhance our existing products and develop, introduce and market new products and services. As a result, we expect, as needed, to continue to make a significant investment in product development. Our development of products is dependent on factors such as assessing market trends and demands and obtaining requisite governmental approvals. Although we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development opportunities, we may fail to develop any new products or services or enhancements to existing products. Even if new products or services are developed, these products or services may not prove to be commercially viable, or we may not be able to obtain the various gaming licenses and approvals necessary to manufacture and distribute these products or provide these services to our customers. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products will meet evolving industry standards and casino or player demands. Changes in technology may make our inventory obsolete and cause significant losses. 22 Future technological advances in the gaming equipment market may result in the availability of new products or increase the efficiency of existing products. We may not be able to adapt to such technological changes. If a technology becomes available that is more cost-effective or creates a superior product, we may be unable to access such technology or its use may involve substantial capital expenditures that we may be unable to finance. Existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped technologies may render our technology less viable, less profitable or obsolete. We may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. If we were to fail to develop our product and service offerings to take advantage of technological developments, we may fall behind our competitors and our business, financial condition, results and prospects could suffer. If technological advances render our current inventory of products obsolete, we may suffer significant revenue losses and write-downs of our assets. Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming platforms could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. The real and perceived integrity and security of mobile gaming is critical to its ability to attract players. We strive to set exacting standards of system security for the systems that we provide to gaming establishments, and our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our customers and regulators, such as the Nevada Gaming Commission and other governmental agencies. For this reason, an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of our mobile gaming platforms. Although our mobile gaming platforms are subject to rigorous internal testing and will be subject to additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions, we may not be able to build and maintain products that are free from defects or manipulations and that satisfy these tests. Although we have taken rigorous steps to prevent defects and manipulations, our gaming platforms could suffer from such defects and manipulation after they are put into operation. Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or bingo hall, gain access to the central game file server on which our server-based mobile gaming platform operates and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and, in turn, termination of leases, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, casinos and bingo halls may replace our gaming platforms if they do not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our server-based gaming platform and loss of licenses, leases and sales. In addition, the occurrence of defects in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming platforms may give rise to claims for lost revenue and related litigation by our gaming establishment customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. Improper conduct of our employees could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business operations. The real and perceived integrity and security of mobile gaming is critical to its ability to attract players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and reliable security for the gaming platforms that we provide to our customers, and our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with Nevada Gaming Commission and other governmental agencies. For this reason, any allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part, or on the part of one or more of our employees, or an actual or alleged security defect with our gaming platform or failure attributable to us, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewal contracts, or the loss of gaming licenses or other regulatory approvals. Our failure to properly manage growth would adversely affect our business operations. In order to implement our business strategy, we must effectively manage rapid growth in our manufacturing, sales and customer support operations. This rapid growth will strain our existing management, financial and other resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we will have to expand our management team, integrate new personnel and augment our marketing and production capabilities. To rapidly produce large volumes of wireless gaming terminals, we will have to formulate and implement design, production planning, manufacturing and quality assurance plans that are unlike those we have used in the past. These plans may strain our manufacturing and industrial engineering capabilities and resources. Rapid growth would also require us to improve our financial, accounting and operational systems and controls. Expansion into new 23 geographic areas would further strain our limited operational and marketing resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, we may fail to execute our business strategy and our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. Possible future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire businesses, services and technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with valuable customer contacts or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may complete, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be impaired. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: · Difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; · Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies to our technology platforms and business processes; · Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · Potential loss of key employees; · Inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; and · Potential write-offs of acquired assets. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Such dilution could adversely affect the market price of our stock. It is also possible that at some point in the future we may decide to enter new markets, thus subjecting ourselves to new risks associated with those markets. Our patents and proprietary rights may not be enforceable, may not be cost effective to enforce or may not provide significant competitive advantage, which could negatively impact our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon protecting our intellectual property rights. We have three United States patents relating to our products and corresponding patents in certain foreign countries. Of the three patents, two expire in 2010 and one expires in 2012. The patents that we own now or in the future may not provide us with significant competitive advantages or may be impaired by challenges to the validity or enforceability of such patents. For example, in the past the validity of one of our patents has been repeatedly challenged. Others may independently develop similar or more advanced technologies or products or design around aspects of our technology that may be patented. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without our authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. For example, we are pursuing a patent infringement action against Planet Bingo, LLC and Melange Computer Services, Inc. to discontinue what we believe to be their infringement of our rights arising under our patents. Both defendants have counterclaimed that our patents are invalid and Planet Bingo, LLC has alleged that our operations infringe one of its patents. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of this litigation. If these counterclaims are successful, our patents may be invalidated or limited in scope or we may be forced to modify or discontinue our operations or pay substantial damages. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, including the litigation described above, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property and our business could be adversely affected. We have patent applications that are currently pending before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These patent applications may not result in any patents being issued. If these patent applications do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions described in the applications. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary 24 licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to the Company and divert our resources which may have a material adverse effect on our growth initiatives. In addition, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, consultants, and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements with us and misappropriating proprietary information from us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on the value of our intellectual property, our reputation, our business and our operating results. We may not be able to obtain additional financing if required, which could harm our operations and ability to generate revenue. Our ability to manufacture our gaming platforms on a large scale may require us to obtain additional financing necessary for the manufacture of such hardware components and expansion of our inventory. The net proceeds that we have received from the sale of the shares of common stock in our initial public offering together with revenue that we generate from operations may not be sufficient to execute our growth strategy. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue or if our working capital and manufacturing capacity is not capable of keeping up with demand, we will need to seek additional equity or debt financing to provide the capital required to maintain or expand our production capabilities. We may not be able to obtain needed additional equity or debt financing on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are able to obtain such financing, existing stockholders may suffer dilution and the equity or debt securities issued to raise such financing may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to implement our business plan, respond to changing business or economic conditions, withstand adverse operating results and compete effectively. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when and if required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even ceased and our ability to generate revenues would be materially impaired. Our inability to lease suitable facilities may harm, delay or prevent our operations. The long term lease for our Las Vegas, Nevada facility, which is our only facility, expires in December 2010. This facility provides us with a convenient central location from which to service our customers. We may not be able to extend the lease on its current terms or, if required, locate new adequate manufacturing facilities on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Relating to Our Industry A decline in the popularity of gaming could reduce the demand for our products. We provide mobile gaming platforms to gaming establishments to enable players to play bingo in several jurisdictions, including Nevada, and traditional casino games on cruise lines. When legally permitted, we intend to provide mobile gaming platforms to enable players to play traditional casino games using our wireless player terminals in Nevada. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for the games that we enable. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past, and may in the future, decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Therefore, during periods of economic contraction, our revenue may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit all or some gaming activities all together in its jurisdiction. A decline in gaming activity as a result of these or any other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences could also harm our business. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment, and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments competes with Internet-based gaming for gaming players, and we do not serve the Internet gaming market. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores, and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our gaming platforms may decline and our business may be adversely affected. Expansion of the gaming industry faces opposition that could limit our access to some markets and impair our growth. We expect a substantial portion of our future growth to result from the general expansion of the gaming industry. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support of national, local and tribal governments. Changes in 25 government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referenda, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular jurisdictions may prevent us from expanding our operations into new markets. A failure by the gaming industry to expand at the rate that we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates, financial condition and operating results. Gaming opponents continue to persist in efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming. Unfavorable public referendums, anti-gaming legislation or unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or operators of gaming products may materially and adversely impair our business and growth prospects. Gaming opponents may be successful in preventing the legalization of mobile gaming in jurisdictions where mobile gaming may be presently prohibited or in limiting the expansion of mobile gaming where it is currently permitted, in either case to the detriment of our business, financial condition, results and prospects. Future acts of terrorism, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and air travel, may impact our industry and may harm our operating results. Future terrorist attacks similar to those of September 11, 2001, may have a significant impact on the travel and tourism industries upon which the gaming industry, and we in turn, depend. In general, our Nevada-based gaming establishment customers are adversely affected by disruptions in air travel, regardless of cause. Although, our gaming establishment customers in markets outside of Nevada, which are not as dependent on air travel, may not experience as much business disruption, the potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future acts of terror in the United States or an outbreak of hostilities involving the United States may reduce players’ willingness to travel, with the result that our operations will suffer. The amounts that our customers pay to us are based on usage of our devices. Accordingly, reduced usage results in reduced payments to us. Although the revenue we generate from our gaming devices may decline as a result of reductions in air travel or consumer spending, our contracts do not generally provide our customers with the right to terminate their contracts with us as a result of reductions in air travel or consumer spending. We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters and other severe catastrophic events, including hurricanes. We have suffered casualty losses as a result of natural disasters (e.g. Hurricane Katrina), and any disruption to our business resulting from natural disasters will adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The strength and profitability of our business depends on player demand for our products at gaming establishments. The impact of natural disasters, the outbreak of infectious diseases and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could negatively affect gaming activity and consequently, the demand for and use of our products at affected gaming establishments. Disruptions of gaming establishment operations, as a result of natural disasters and other catastrophic events beyond our control, would also reduce the number of gaming establishments that offer our products. We operate our business primarily through gaming platforms, including wireless and stationary player terminals, cashier-based POS terminals and self-service POS kiosks, used by players at gaming establishments and bingo halls. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our physical assets are in locations beyond our direct control, including areas of Louisiana that sustained major damage as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Generally, our business may also be adversely affected by any damage to or loss of equipment that we install at gaming establishments resulting from theft, vandalism, terrorism, flood, fire or any other natural disaster. Our insurance may not be adequate to recover our losses from these events. The amounts that our customers pay to us are based on usage of our devices. Accordingly, reduced usage results in reduced payments to us. Although the revenue we generate from our gaming devices may decline as a result of a natural disaster, our contracts do not generally provide our customers with the right to terminate their contracts with us as a result of a natural disaster. Beneficial holders of our securities are subject to regulation by the Nevada gaming authorities, which may result in required applications for license, findings of suitability and mandatory redemption of shares. Because we are a registered company under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, any person who acquires five percent or more of any class of our voting securities is required to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires 10 percent or more of our voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. If such person fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada gaming authorities, or if such person refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in connection with such person’s application, the person may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to the owner of record if the owner of record, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found 26 unsuitable and who holds any voting security may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: · pay that person any dividend upon any voting securities; · allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right relating to us held by the person; · pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or · fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that persons who acquire five percent or more of the beneficial ownership of our outstanding capital stock notify us and consent to any background investigation or other requirements imposed by any gaming authority. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation also provide for mandatory redemption of its shares if the beneficial owner fails to comply with any applicable gaming law requirements. Certain Nevada statutes have potential anti-takeover effects that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and depress the price of our common stock. Nevada statutes regulating business combinations, takeovers and control share acquisitions may hinder or delay a change in control of our company. In addition, under Nevada law, any change of control of our company must also be approved by the Nevada gaming authorities. Other jurisdictions may have similar requirements. These statutes could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may limit our stockholders’ ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeovers and tender offer bids, even if such events could be viewed as beneficial by our stockholders. ITEM 