Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in us involves a high degree of risk and may result in the loss of all or part of your investment. You should consider carefully all of the information set out in this document and the risks attaching to an investment in us, including, in particular, the risks described below. The information below does not purport to be an exhaustive list and should be considered in conjunction with the contents of the rest of this document. Risks associated with FutureFuel Chemical Company. The current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets since mid-2008 have affected global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. Despite fiscal and monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the foreseeable future. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory held by our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The impact of the credit crisis and economic slowdown will vary by region and country. The diversity of our geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance and exposure to any single economy. These conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions and other sources of credit and liquidity. This tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Based on our latest discussions, we believe that our sources of credit and liquidity are able to fulfill their commitments to us as of our filing date. We cannot predict, however, how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could be adversely affected. However, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. In addition, we monitor the financial condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public information or data provided directly to us. If the financial condition of one of our major customers was negatively impacted by market conditions or liquidity, we could be adversely impacted in terms of accounts receivable and/or inventory specifically attributable to them. The industries in which FutureFuel Chemical Company competes are highly competitive. The oil and gas industry, as well as the chemical business, are highly competitive. There is competition within these industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of industry and individual consumers. FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with other firms in the sale or purchase of various goods or services in many national and international markets. FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than FutureFuel Chemical Company does. In addition, FutureFuel Chemical Company will compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis, and the number of these smaller companies is increasing. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. As a result of competition, FutureFuel Chemical Company may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for its products and/or services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although FutureFuel Chemical Company will employ all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes, no assurances can be made that they will be successful. A key component of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position, particularly given the expected commodity-based nature of many of its products, will be its ability to manage expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency. No assurances can be given that FutureFuel Chemical Company will be able to successfully manage such expenses. 20 FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position in the markets in which it participates is, in part, subject to external factors in addition to those that FutureFuel Chemical Company can impact. Natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which FutureFuel Chemical Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could negatively impact FutureFuel Chemical Company’s competitive position and its ability to maintain market share. Increases in the construction of biodiesel production plants may cause excess biodiesel production capacity in the market. Excess capacity may adversely affect the price at which FutureFuel Chemical Company is able to sell the biodiesel that it produces and may also adversely affect our anticipated results of operation and financial condition. In 2006 and 2007, approximately 250 million gallons and 490 million gallons, respectively, of biodiesel were produced in the United States. 2008 biodiesel production is estimated at approximately 700 million gallons. See http://www.americanfuels.info/2008/11/august-biodiesel-production-down.html. As of September 29, 2008, there was a reported 2.61 billion gallons per year of biodiesel production capacity in the United States. www.biodiesel.org - see link to Production Facilities, p 8. With such biodiesel production capacity in the United States, compared to historical production levels, there is a risk that there will be a significant amount of excess biodiesel production capacity in the U.S., which may adversely affect the price at which FutureFuel Chemical Company is able to sell the biodiesel that it sells and thereby adversely affect our anticipated results of operation and financial condition. The U.S. biodiesel manufacturing base is contracting. This contraction may adversely affect FutureFuel Chemical Company’s ability to sell biodiesel. The excess biodiesel production in the U.S. as described above has been ameliorated somewhat in 2008 in that at least 20 of 178 plants are idled while others have reduced production, which has resulted in approximately 700 million gallons of biodiesel actually produced in the United States in 2008 as compared to actual production capacity. See, for example, www.biodiesel.org/buyingbiodiesel/producres_marketers/Producers%20Map-Existing and www.biodiesel.org/pdf_files/fuelfactsheets/Production_Graph_Slide. Further industry consolidation is expected. While such industry consolidation addresses the issue of excess production, it could affect the willingness of potential customers to purchase biodiesel if they perceive that the biodiesel market is not a stable long-term supply of product, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Anti-subsidy and anti-dumping complaints have been filed with the European Commission concerning imports of biodiesel originating in the United States. The existence of such complaints, and an adverse decision by the European Commission, could reduce demand for biodiesel produced in the United States. Anti-subsidy and anti-dumping complaints have been filed with the European Commission concerning imports of biodiesel originating in the United States. Although we are not a target of such complaints and do not import biodiesel into the European community, the existence of such complaints, and an adverse decision by the European Commission, could reduce demand for biodiesel produced in the United States. Such a reduction in demand could reduce the amount of biodiesel that FutureFuel Chemical Company sells, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Fluctuations in commodity prices may cause a reduction in the demand or profitability of the products or services FutureFuel Chemical Company produces. Prices for alternative fuels tend to fluctuate widely based on a variety of political and economic factors. These price fluctuations heavily influence the oil and gas industry. Lower energy prices for existing products tend to limit the demand for alternative forms of energy services and related products and infrastructure. Historically, the markets for alternative fuels have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in alternative fuel prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; 21 · the price and/or availability of biodiesel feedstocks; · weather conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline and refining capacity; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it extremely difficult to predict future alternative fuel price movements with any certainty. There may be a decrease in the demand for FutureFuel Chemical Company’s products or services and our profitability could be adversely affected. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials for its operations. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant on certain strategic raw materials (such as acetic anhydride, pelargonic acid, soybean oil and methanol) for its operations. We have implemented certain risk management tools, such as multiple suppliers and hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material supply and costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which FutureFuel Chemical Company operates or does business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. While temporary shortages of raw materials may occasionally occur, these items have historically been sufficiently available to cover current requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by natural disasters, plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. In addition, as FutureFuel Chemical Company increases its biodiesel capacity, it will require larger supplies of raw materials which have not yet been secured and may not be available for the foregoing reasons, or may be available only at prices higher than current levels. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. FutureFuel Chemical Company is reliant upon two customers for a substantial amount of its sales. All sales of the bleach activator are made to The Procter & Gamble Company and all sales of a proprietary herbicide and certain other intermediates used in the production of this herbicide are made to Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation. These two customers represented approximately 60% of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. The contract with The Procter & Gamble Company is a multiyear contract and no assurances can be given that such contract will be extended or, if extended, upon what terms. The contracts with Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation contain certain termination provisions and no assurances can be given that these contracts will not be terminated. The loss of these two companies as customers would have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Changes in technology may render FutureFuel Chemical Company’s products or services obsolete. The alternative fuel and chemical industries may be substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. Examples include competitive product technologies, such as green gasoline and renewable diesel produced from catalytic hydroforming of renewable feedstock oils and competitive process technologies such as advanced biodiesel continuous reactor and washing designs that increase throughput. These changes may render obsolete certain existing products, energy sources, services and technologies currently used by FutureFuel Chemical Company. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon by FutureFuel Chemical Company will not be subject to such obsolescence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by FutureFuel Chemical Company to newer technologies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. The oil and gas and chemical industries are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and those associated with compliance and permitting obligations (including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances or waste, or discharges and air and other emissions) as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require FutureFuel Chemical Company to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business segments in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase FutureFuel Chemical Company’s cost of doing business or affect its operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, FutureFuel Chemical Company could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether FutureFuel Chemical Company was responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant and, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels operations may be harmed if the government were to change current laws and regulations. Alternative fuels businesses benefit from tax credits and government subsidies. If any of the state or federal laws and regulations relating to the tax credits and government subsidies change, the ability to recover capital expenditures from an alternative fuels business could be harmed. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels platform is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the application and use of alternative energy products, including those related specifically to biodiesel. For instance, biodiesel products benefit from being the only alternative fuel certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that fulfills the requirements of Section 211(B) of the Clean Air Act. If agency determinations, laws and regulations relating to the application and use of alternative energy are changed, the marketability and sales of biodiesel production could be materially adversely affected. 23 The federal excise tax credit for biodiesel expires on December 31, 2009 and Congress has not enacted legislation to extend this credit. If the credit expires, FutureFuel Chemical Company’s cost of producing biodiesel will be increased, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position. In October 2004, Congress passed a biodiesel tax incentive, structured as a federal excise tax credit, as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The credit amounts to one cent for each percentage point of vegetable oil or animal fat biodiesel that is blended with petrodiesel. For example, blenders that blend B20 made from soy, canola and other vegetable oils and animal fats receive a 20¢ per gallon excise tax credit. The tax incentive generally is taken by petroleum distributors and is passed on to the consumer. It is designed to lower the cost of biodiesel to consumers in both taxable and tax-exempt markets. The tax credit was scheduled to expire at the end of 2006, but was extended in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to December 31, 2008 and most recently it was extended to December 31, 2009. Congress has not enacted any legislation to extend this tax credit beyond December 31, 2009. If the tax credit is not extended, FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biodiesel production costs will increase by $1.00 per gallon. If biodiesel feedstock costs do not decrease significantly relative to biodiesel prices by the beginning of 2010, FutureFuel Chemical Company would realize a negative biodiesel production margin. As a result, we would cease producing biodiesel, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to raw goods and distribution markets. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory transportation or the location of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s manufacturing complex from more lucrative markets may hinder FutureFuel Chemical Company’s access to raw goods and/or distribution markets. The availability of a ready market for biodiesel depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of biodiesel and the proximity of the plant to trucking and terminal facilities. The sale of large quantities of biodiesel necessitates that FutureFuel Chemical Company transport its biodiesel to other markets since the Batesville, Arkansas regional market is not expected to absorb all of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s contemplated production. Currently, common carrier pipelines are not transporting biodiesel. This leaves trucks, barges and rail cars as the means of distribution of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s product from the plant to these storage terminals for further distribution. However, the current availability of rail cars is limited and at times unavailable because of repairs or improvements, or as a result of priority transportation agreements with other shippers. Additionally, the current availability of barges is limited, particularly heated barges to transport biodiesel during winter months. If transportation is restricted or is unavailable, FutureFuel Chemical Company may not be able to sell into more lucrative markets and consequently its cash flow from sales of biodiesel could be restricted. The biodiesel industry also faces several challenges to wide biodiesel acceptance, including cold temperature limitations, storage stability, fuel quality standards and exhaust emissions. If the industry does not satisfy consumers that these issues have been resolved or are being resolved, biodiesel may not gain widespread acceptance which may have an adverse impact on FutureFuel Chemical Company’s cash flow from sales of biodiesel. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s insurance may not protect it against its business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate for FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks which cannot be sourced on economic terms. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations (including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage) occurs and is not fully 24 covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. FutureFuel Chemical Company depends on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our future operations. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s business will also be dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring or retaining these personnel could prove more difficult to hire or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause FutureFuel Chemical Company to incur greater costs, or prevent it from pursuing its expansion strategy as quickly as it would otherwise wish to do. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of its raw materials or finished goods, FutureFuel Chemical Company may have unexpected losses. We hedge FutureFuel Chemical Company’s raw materials and/or finished products for our biofuels segment to some degree to manage the commodity price risk of such items. This requires the purchase or sale of commodity futures contracts and/or options on those contracts or similar financial instruments. We may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. If we do not or are not capable of managing the commodity price risk of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s raw materials and/or finished products for our biofuels segment, FutureFuel Chemical Company may incur losses as a result of price fluctuations with respect to these raw materials and/or finished products. In most cases we are not capable of hedging raw material and/or finished products for our chemicals segment. Certain of our products are produced under manufacturing agreements with our customers which provide us the contractual ability to pass along raw material price increases. However, we do not have this protection for all product lines within the chemicals segment. If we do not or are not capable of managing escalating raw material prices and/or passing these increases along to our customers via prices for our finished products, we may incur losses. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for its operations, it may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The operation of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s manufacturing plant requires numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. FutureFuel Chemical Company may not be able to obtain all necessary permits (or modifications thereto) and approvals and, as a result, our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary renewal permits (or modifications to existing permits) and approvals for future expansions may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements. The lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. It is possible that we will not consummate more than one business combination with the proceeds from our July 2006 offering and FutureFuel Chemical Company may be the only target business that we acquire. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon FutureFuel Chemical Company. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations of entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is possible that we will not have the resources to diversify effectively our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. FutureFuel Chemical Company’s indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. FutureFuel Chemical Company has entered into a $50 million revolving credit facility with a commercial bank and we have guaranteed FutureFuel Chemical Company’s obligations thereunder. The restrictions governing this indebtedness (such as total debt to EBITDA limitations) may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, 25 engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. If FutureFuel Chemical Company is unable to meet its future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance such indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We expect to have capital expenditure requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make capital expenditures for the expansion of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s biofuels production capacity and complementary infrastructure. We intend to finance these capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from FutureFuel Chemical Company’s operations, borrowings under our credit facility and existing cash. However, if FutureFuel Chemical Company’s capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete the projected expansions or capitalize on other business opportunities. We may be unable to successfully integrate future acquisitions with our operations or realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions, if any, in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining acquired operations include, among other things: · operating a significantly larger combined organization; · consolidating corporate technological and administrative functions; · integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; and · diverting management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher and unexpected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities and fluctuations in markets. If benefits from future acquisitions do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our shares of common stock may decline. The scope of indemnity protection afforded to us under the acquisition agreement with Eastman Chemical Company is limited. While we are confident that the due diligence process undertaken in relation to FutureFuel Chemical Company was sufficient and that material areas of potential exposure have been discovered, there can be no certainty that all significant exposures were uncovered by the due diligence process and it is unlikely that all existing or potential problems and/or liabilities have been revealed. The inspections that were performed may not have revealed structural and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination. We were not able to obtain contractual indemnities from Eastman Chemical Company for all liabilities that were created by Eastman Chemical Company or FutureFuel Chemical Company prior to the completion of the acquisition of FutureFuel Chemical Company and have only limited indemnity protection under the acquisition agreement with Eastman Chemical Company, most of which expired 18 months after the acquisition. As part of such acquisition agreement, we, through FutureFuel Chemical Company, assumed the risk of the physical condition of FutureFuel Chemical Company’s properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with expectations, as well as certain environmental and other unknown liabilities in excess of certain amounts. If any such exposures materialize or the information provided as part of the due diligence exercise proves to be untrue or inaccurate, we will have to rely on the remaining limited indemnity protection afforded to us under the acquisition agreement, if any, in order to seek compensation for any financial loss incurred as a result. By its nature, 26 indemnity protection is limited in scope, being the product of a negotiation exercise between us and Eastman Chemical Company, and therefore we may not recover any or sufficient funds fully to cover any loss incurred. In addition, even where potential areas of exposure are covered by the scope of remaining indemnity protection provided under the acquisition agreement, there is no guarantee that Eastman Chemical Company will be in a financial position to support the level of indemnification for which it may be liable. Consequently, we may not recover any or sufficient funds fully to cover any loss incurred. Risks associated with owning our shares and warrants. The exercise of our warrants are subject to transfer and exercise requirements under the Securities Act. In addition, our warrants are represented by definitive certificates, which could reduce the liquidity of our warrants. The exercise of the warrants for shares of our common stock are subject to certain conditions designed to ensure compliance with U.S. securities laws. These conditions include the provision to us of a written certification that the exercising shareholder is neither within the U.S. nor a U.S. person and that the warrant is not being exercised on behalf of a U.S. person, or the provision to us of a written opinion of counsel to the effect that the transfer of the warrants and issuance of the shares of our common stock upon the exercise of such warrants have been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or are exempt from registration thereunder. As a result, our warrants are represented by definitive certificates which contain the following legend. Prior to investing in the securities or conducting any transactions in the securities, investors are advised to consult professional advisers regarding the restrictions on transfer summarized below and any other restrictions. This security (or its predecessor) was originally issued in a transaction exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and is a restricted security (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act). This security may not be offered, sold or otherwise transferred in the absence of registration or an applicable exemption therefrom. Hedging transactions involving this security may not be conducted directly or indirectly, unless in compliance with the Securities Act. Each purchaser of this security is hereby notified that the seller of this security may be relying on the exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A or Regulation S thereunder. The holder of this security agrees for the benefit of the Company that (a) this security may be offered, resold, pledged or otherwise transferred, only (i) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a qualified institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (ii) outside of the United States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (iii) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (iv) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (i) through (iv) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and (b) the holder will, and each subsequent holder is required to, notify any purchaser of this security from it of the resale restrictions referred to in (a) above. The securities represented by this certificate are subject to transfer restrictions which require that in addition to any certifications required from a transferor as set forth on the reverse of this certificate, prior to the expiration of a distribution compliance period of at least one year, the transferee certifies as to whether or not it is a US person within the meaning of Regulation S and provides certain other certifications and agreements. Prior to permitting any transfer, the Company may request an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the 27 Company that such transfer is to be effected in a transaction meeting the requirements of Regulation S under the Securities Act or is otherwise exempt from registration under the Securities Act. In order to transfer or sell our warrants, holders must provide the definitive certificates to the transfer agent, who will require certain certifications as set forth above, and on occasion legal opinions as set forth above, prior to issuing new warrant certificates to new warrant holders. The Depository Trust Company, which settles electronic trades, does not allow electronic settlement until the legend has been removed and the certification requirements required under U.S. securities laws have expired. The lack of a fully electronic settlement mechanism may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and the price of our warrants. A minimum holding period for our shares received upon exercise of our warrants may commence upon the exercise of such warrants. The shares of our common stock issued upon the exercise of a warrant generally will be considered restricted securities subject to a six-month holding period as described below. In general, a security holder who has not been our affiliate for three months may resell these securities without any restriction after satisfying the six-month holding period, provided that we are current in our SEC filings. The Rule 144 holding period for the shares of our common stock received upon exercise of our warrants will start upon the exercise of such warrants. Accordingly, holders of our warrants that exercise their warrants for cash will receive shares of our common stock subject to trading restrictions which are greater than those imposed on the trading of previously issued shares. Such restrictions may mean the value of the shares received upon exercise of the warrants may be significantly lower, at least until the six-month holding period has expired, than the shares originally issued. If our founding shareholders and Mr. Novelly or his designees exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. Those shareholders holding shares of our common stock prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shareholders”; see “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters -- Founding Shares Owned by the Founding Shareholders” below for a list of the founding shareholders) and Mr. Paul A. Novelly, our executive chairman of the board, or his designees, are entitled to demand that we register under the Securities Act, the resale of their shares of our common stock issued prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shares”) and their shares included in the units purchased in our July 2006 offering. The demand may be made at any time after the date on which we have become a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and their founding shares have been released from escrow. Except in limited circumstances, this date will not be before July 12, 2009. If our founding shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of our common stock, there will be an additional 11,250,000 shares and/or up to 5,000,000 shares issued on exercise of their warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. We may not list our common stock on a stock exchange other than the OTCBB and we may not list our warrants on any stock exchange. Under the investor rights agreement that we entered into on July 12, 2006 with CRT Capital Group LLC and KBC Peel Hunt Ltd, we are obligated to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause our shares of common stock to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed (to the extent applicable) on the American Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the NASD Automated Quotation System or the NASDAQ National Market (or, in each case, a successor thereto) or a similarly recognized national trading platform, if our common stock so qualifies. Prior to December 2008, we did not satisfy the listing requirements of any such exchange other than the OTCBB. Application for listing was made to the OTCBB and our shares of common stock are quoted thereon. In December 2008, we met the listing requirements for certain of the NASDAQ markets, and we are currently assessing whether listing on a NASDAQ market is commercially reasonable. However, no assurances can be given that we will list our common stock on such exchange, or, if listed, whether our common stock will continue to qualify for quotation or listing on such exchange or other similarly recognized national trading platform, including the OTCBB. 28 We have no obligation to list or quote our warrants on any exchange, and no assurances can be given that we will attempt to cause our warrants to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed on any exchange or recognized national trading platform. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 