Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We are dependent on our Medicare Supplier Number. We are required to have a Medicare Supplier Number in order to bill Medicare for services provided to Medicare patients. Furthermore, all third party and Medicaid contracts require us to have a Medicare Supplier Number. In addition, we are required to comply with Medicare Supplier Standards in order to maintain such number. If we are unable to comply with the relevant standards, we could lose our Medicare Supplier Number. The loss of such identification number for any reason would prevent us from billing Medicare for patients who rely on Medicare to pay their medical expenses and, as a result, we would experience a decrease in our revenues. Without such a number, we would be unable to continue our various third party and Medicaid contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon our Medicare Supplier Number. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has issued a ruling that all durable medical equipment (“DME”) providers must be accredited by a recognized accrediting entity by September 30, 2009. On February 17, 2009, we received accreditation from Community Health Accreditation Program (CHAP), thus meeting this CMS requirement. If we lost our accredited status, our financial condition, revenues and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Changes in third-party reimbursement rates may adversely impact our revenues. Our revenues are substantially dependent on third-party reimbursement. We are paid directly by private insurers and governmental agencies, often on a fixed fee basis, for continuous infusion equipment and related disposable supplies provided to patients. If the average fees allowable by private insurers or governmental agencies were reduced, the negative impact on revenues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, if amounts owed to us by patients and insurers are reduced or not paid on a timely basis, we may be required to increase our bad debt expense and/or decrease our revenues. Any change in the overall healthcare reimbursement system may adversely impact our business. Changes in the healthcare reimbursement system often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance of continuous infusion therapy may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the healthcare reimbursement system. Changes to the health care reimbursement system that favor other technologies or treatment regimens that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities that use our services, may adversely affect our ability to market our services profitably. 9 Table of Contents Our success is impacted by the availability of the chemotherapy drugs that are used in our continuous infusion pump systems. We primarily derive our revenue from the rental of ambulatory infusion pumps to oncology patients through physicians’ offices and chemotherapy clinics. A shortage in the availability of chemotherapy drugs that are used in the continuous infusion pump system could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If future clinical studies demonstrate that oral medications are as effective as or more effective than continuous infusion therapy, our business could be adversely affected. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing, evaluating and comparing the therapeutic benefits of current continuous infusion-based regimens with various oral medication regimens. If these clinical trials demonstrate that oral medications provide equal or greater therapeutic benefits and/or demonstrate reduced side effects compared to prior oral medication regimens, our revenues and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if new oral medications are introduced to the market that are superior to existing oral therapies, physicians’ willingness to prescribe continuous infusion-based regimens could decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global financial conditions may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. The recent global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, as well as the uncertainty in global economic conditions, have resulted in a significant tightening of credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets and reduced corporate profits and capital spending. As a result, our customers (i.e., patients and payors) may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the current global financial crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The financial crisis could also adversely impact our ability to access the financial markets. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. State licensure laws for durable medical equipment, or DME, suppliers are subject to change. If we fail to comply with any state’s laws, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state and our business operations will be adversely affected. As a DME supplier operating in all 50 states of the United States, we are subject to each state’s licensure laws regulating DME suppliers. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change and we must ensure that we are continually in compliance with the laws of all 50 states. In the event that we fail to comply with any state’s laws governing the licensing of DME suppliers, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state until we regain compliance. We may also be subject to certain fines and/or penalties and our business operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes expanding into treatment for cancers other than colorectal. There can be no assurance that continuous infusion-based regimens for these other cancers will become standards of care for large numbers of patients or that we will be successful in penetrating these different markets. An aspect of our growth strategy is to expand into the treatment of other cancers, such as head, neck and gastric. Currently, relatively small percentages of these patients are treated with regimens that include continuous infusion therapy. That population will expand only if clinical trial results for new drugs and new combinations of 10 Table of Contents drugs demonstrate superior outcomes for regimens that include continuous infusion therapy relative to alternatives. No assurances can be given that these new drugs and drug combinations will be approved or will prove superior to oral medication or other treatment alternatives. In addition, no assurances can be given that we will be able to penetrate successfully any new markets that may develop in the future or manage the growth in additional resources that would be required. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors, our business operations may suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do for research and development, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our services may be superior. The industry is subject to technological changes and such changes may put our current fleet of pumps at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may materially suffer. Our industry is dependent on regulatory guidelines that affect our billing practices. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. Aggressive competitors may not fully comply with rules pertaining to documentation required by CMS and other payors for patient billing. Competitors, who don’t meet the same standards of compliance that we do with regards to billing regulations, can put us at a potential competitive disadvantage. We are a participating provider with Medicare and under contract with more than 200 additional insurance plans, all of which have very stringent guidelines. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on independent suppliers for our products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of products, particularly our supply of electronic ambulatory pumps, may negatively impact our operations. Our infusion pumps are obtained from outside vendors. The majority of our new pumps are electronic ambulatory infusion pumps which are supplied to us by three major suppliers: Smiths Medical, Inc.; Hospira Worldwide, Inc.; and WalkMed Infusion, LLC (formerly known as McKinley Medical, LLC). The loss or disruption of our relationships with outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of pumps to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of pumps could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. Our inability to provide pumps to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we do not manufacture the products we distribute, if one of the products distributed by us proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner or patient, we may be subject to liability that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not manufacture the pumps that we distribute, a defect in the design or manufacture of a pump distributed by us, or a failure of pumps distributed by us to perform for the use specified, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of the pumps distributed by us by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject us to liability. Any substantial underinsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and prospects for future business. 11 Table of Contents Unexpected costs or delays in integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our financial results. During the year the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of First Biomedical, and plans to make additional acquisitions going forward . As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations . We may encounter difficulties that could harm the businesses, adversely affect our financial condition, and cause our stock price to decline, including the following: • We may have difficulty or experience delays in integrating the business and operations; • We may have difficulty maintaining employee morale and retaining key managers and other employees as we take steps to combine the personnel and business cultures of separate organizations into one, and to eliminate duplicate positions and functions; and • We may have difficulty preserving important relationships with others, such as strategic partners, customers, and suppliers, who may delay or defer decisions on agreements with us, or seek to change existing agreements with us, because of the acquisition. The integration process may divert the attention of our officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt our business, particularly if we encounter these types of difficulties. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in the integration process could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm our results of operations. Even if the operations are integrated successfully, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities, whether within the anticipated time frame, or anytime in the future. We intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Future strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities to us. Over the next two to three years we intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Any future strategic alliances, joint ventures or acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable partners or acquisition candidates, as the case may be, negotiate acceptable terms for such transactions and obtain financing, if necessary. We also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates which may increase our costs. Acquisitions or other investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Any future acquisitions of businesses could also expose us to unanticipated liabilities. If we engage in strategic acquisitions, we may experience significant costs and difficulty in assimilating operations or personnel, which could threaten our future growth. If we make any acquisitions, we could have difficulty assimilating operations, technologies and products or integrating or retaining personnel of acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions may involve entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition, pursuing acquisition opportunities could divert our management’s attention from our ongoing business operations and result in decreased operating performance. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization of intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business. The credit agreement that governs our credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. and KeyBank National Association contains, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any lien upon any of our property, assets or revenues; 12 Table of Contents • make certain investments; • create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any indebtedness; • merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate all or substantially all of our assets; • make any disposition or enter into any agreement to make any disposition; and • declare or make, directly or indirectly, any dividend or other restricted payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so. Recently adopted healthcare reform legislation may adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the U.S., comprehensive programs are under consideration that seek to, among other things, increase access to healthcare for the uninsured and control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy. On March 23, 2010, healthcare reform legislation (the “Healthcare Legislation”) was approved by Congress and has been signed into law. This legislation has only recently been enacted and requires the adoption of implementing regulations, which may impact our business. The Healthcare Legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights may be applicable to our business. We may be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce (i) the referral of an individual, for an item or service, or (ii) the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us that promote medical devices, provide medical device management services and may provide coding and billing advice to customers; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ in significant ways from state to state and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethics codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, Maine, and Minnesota, requiring reporting to state governments of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Federal legislation, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2009, has been proposed and is moving forward in Congress. This legislation would require disclosure to the federal government of payments to physicians. These laws all provide for penalties for 13 Table of Contents non-compliance. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may run afoul of one or more laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. We are dependent on key personnel, and the loss of any key employees or officers may have a materially adverse effect on our operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel who generally have extensive experience in our industry. Our future success also will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of any key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that may ultimately prove to be incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If management misinterprets GAAP, subsequent adjustments resulting from errors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments from errors could require us to restate our financial statements. Restating financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. RISK FACTORS RELATING SPECIFICALLY TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND WARRANTS The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to remain, volatile and may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of healthcare services companies, including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that appear unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • announcements of technological innovations, new products, or clinical studies by others; • government regulation; • changes in the coverage or reimbursement rates of private insurers and governmental agencies; • announcements regarding new products or services or strategic alliances or acquisitions; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • the liquidity of the market for our common stock and warrants; 14 Table of Contents • changes in health care policies in the United States or globally; • global financial conditions; and • comments by securities analysts and general market conditions. The realization of any risks described in these “Risk Factors” could also have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock and warrants. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. Under the terms of our credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and KeyBank National Association, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we do not pay dividends. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition to the shares of our common stock currently available for sale in the public market, shares of our common stock sold in past private placements (which include shares held by certain members of our board of directors) and the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding warrants are subject to registration rights. If the holders of these securities choose to exercise their registration rights, this would result in an increase in the number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the public market, which in turn could lead to a decrease in our stock price and a dilution of stockholders’ ownership interests. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL,), as well as our stockholders rights plan, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the DGCL contain certain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our stockholders may consider favorable and, as a result, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Our amended and restated bylaws include provisions establishing advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and director nominations and permitting only stockholders holding at least a majority of our outstanding common stock to call a special meeting. Additionally, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the DGCL, which, among other things, and subject to various exceptions, restricts certain business transactions between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock (“an interested stockholder”) for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan. This plan would cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 