Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in us involves a high degree of risk and may result in the loss of all or part of your investment. You should consider carefully all of the information set out in this document and the risks attaching to an investment in us, including, in particular, the risks described below. The information below does not purport to be an exhaustive list and should be considered in conjunction with the contents of the rest of this document. Risks Associated With Our Business Activities The federal excise tax credit for biodiesel expired on December 31, 2009 and Congress has not enacted legislation to extend this credit. If the credit is not renewed, our cost of producing biodiesel will be increased, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position. In October 2004, Congress passed a biodiesel tax incentive, structured as a federal excise tax credit, as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The credit amounted to one cent for each percentage point of vegetable oil or animal fat biodiesel that was blended with petrodiesel (and one-half cent for each percentage point of recycled oils and other non-agricultural biodiesel), subsequently amended and increased to one cent. For example, blenders that blended B20 made from soy, canola and other vegetable oils and animal fats received a 20¢ per gallon excise tax credit. The tax incentive generally was taken by petroleum distributors and was passed on to the consumer. It was designed to lower the cost of biodiesel to consumers in both taxable and tax-exempt markets. The tax credit was scheduled to expire at the end of 2006, but was extended in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to December 31, 2008 and most recently it was extended to December 31, 2009. Congress did not enact any legislation to extend this tax credit beyond December 31, 2009 and it expired at that time. In December 2009, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill extending this credit to December 31, 2010. On March 10, 2010, the United States Senate passed a similar bill as part of the American Workers, State and Business Relief Act, H.R. 4213. In addition to extending the credit to December 31, 2010, both bills retroactively apply the credit to the beginning of 2010. The House and Senate bills must now be reconciled before being sent to the President for his signature. The exact timeframe for reconciling the two bills has not been set. If the tax credit is not renewed, our biodiesel production costs will increase by $1.00 per gallon. If biodiesel feedstock costs do not decrease significantly relative to biodiesel prices, we will realize a negative gross margin on biodiesel. As a result, we would cease producing biodiesel, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets since mid-2008 have affected global economic conditions, resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. Despite fiscal and monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the foreseeable future. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory held by our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The impact of the credit crisis and economic slowdown will vary by region and country. The diversity of our geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance and exposure to any single economy. These conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions and other sources of credit and liquidity. This tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. Based on our latest discussions, we believe that our sources of credit and liquidity are able to fulfill their commitments to us as of our filing date. We cannot predict, however, how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, whether they will deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could be adversely affected. However, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. In addition, we monitor the financial condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public information or data provided directly to us. If the financial condition of one of our major customers was 17 negatively impacted by market conditions or liquidity, we could be adversely impacted in terms of accounts receivable and/or inventory specifically attributable to them. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive. The biodiesel industry, as well as the chemical business, are highly competitive. There is competition within these industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of industry and individual consumers. We will compete with other firms in the sale or purchase of various goods or services in many national and international markets. We will compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, we will compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis, and the number of these smaller companies is increasing. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our products and/or services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we will employ all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes, no assurances can be made that they will be successful. A key component of our competitive position, particularly given the expected commodity-based nature of many of our products, will be our ability to manage expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully manage such expenses. Our competitive position in the markets in which we participate is, in part, subject to external factors in addition to those that we can impact. Natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which we operate or do business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could negatively impact our competitive position and our ability to maintain market share. Increases in the construction of biodiesel production plants may cause excess biodiesel production capacity in the market. Excess capacity may adversely affect the price at which we are able to sell the biodiesel that we produce and may also adversely affect our anticipated results of operation and financial condition. In 2008 and 2009, approximately 700 million gallons and 450-490 million gallons, respectively, of biodiesel were produced in the United States. As of June 22, 2009, there were a reported 2.69 billion gallons per year of biodiesel production capacity in the United States operated by 173 companies. Twenty-nine companies had announced expansions totaling an addition 428 million gallons of production when completed within the next 12-18 months. See http://www.biodiesel.org/pdf_files/fuelfactsheets/Production_Capacity.pdf. With such biodiesel production capacity in the United States, compared to historical production levels, there is a risk that there will be a significant amount of excess biodiesel produced in the U.S., which may adversely affect the price at which we are able to sell the biodiesel that we produce and thereby adversely affect our anticipated results of operation and financial condition. The U.S. biodiesel manufacturing base is contracting. This contraction may adversely affect our ability to sell biodiesel. The excess biodiesel production in the U.S. as described above has been ameliorated somewhat in 2009 in that at least two-thirds of 177 plants are idled while others have reduced production, which has resulted in approximately 450-490 million gallons of biodiesel actually produced in the United States in 2009 as compared to actual production capacity. Further industry consolidation is expected. While such industry consolidation addresses the issue of excess production, it could affect the willingness of potential customers to purchase biodiesel if they perceive that the biodiesel market is not a stable long-term supply of product, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 18 Anti-subsidy and anti-dumping complaints have been filed with the European Commission concerning imports of biodiesel originating in the United States. The existence of such complaints, and an adverse decision by the European Commission, could reduce demand for biodiesel produced in the United States. Anti-subsidy and anti-dumping complaints have been filed with the European Commission concerning imports of biodiesel originating in the United States. Although we are not a target of such complaints and do not import biodiesel into the European community, the existence of such complaints, and an adverse decision by the European Commission, could reduce demand for biodiesel produced in the United States. Such a reduction in demand could reduce the amount of biodiesel that we sell, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Fluctuations in commodity prices may cause a reduction in the demand or profitability of the products or services we produce. Prices for alternative fuels tend to fluctuate widely based on a variety of political and economic factors. These price fluctuations heavily influence the oil and gas industry. Lower energy prices for existing products tend to limit the demand for alternative forms of energy services and related products and infrastructure. Historically, the markets for alternative fuels have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in alternative fuel prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; · the price and/or availability of biodiesel feedstocks; · weather conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline and refining capacity; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it extremely difficult to predict future alternative fuel price movements with any certainty. There may be a decrease in the demand for our products or services and our profitability could be adversely affected. We are reliant on certain strategic raw materials for our operations. We are reliant on certain strategic raw materials (such as acetic anhydride, pelargonic acid, soybean oil and methanol) for our operations. We have implemented certain risk management tools, such as multiple suppliers and hedging, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material supply and costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which we operate or do business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. 19 While temporary shortages of raw materials may occasionally occur, these items have historically been sufficiently available to cover current requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by natural disasters, plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. In addition, as we increase our biodiesel capacity, we will require larger supplies of raw materials which have not yet been secured and may not be available for the foregoing reasons, or may be available only at prices higher than current levels. Our operations or products may, at times, be adversely affected by these factors. We are reliant upon two customers for a substantial amount of our sales. All sales of the bleach activator are made to The Procter & Gamble Company and all sales of a proprietary herbicide and certain other intermediates used in the production of this herbicide are made to Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation. These two customers represented approximately 53% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. The contract with The Procter & Gamble Company is a multi-year contract and no assurances can be given that such contract will be extended or, if extended, upon what terms. The contracts with Arysta LifeScience North America Corporation contain certain termination provisions and no assurances can be given that these contracts will not be terminated. The loss of these two companies as customers would have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in technology may render our products or services obsolete. The alternative fuel and chemical industries may be substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. Examples include competitive product technologies, such as green gasoline and renewable diesel produced from catalytic hydroforming of renewable feedstock oils and competitive process technologies such as advanced biodiesel continuous reactor and washing designs that increase throughput. These changes may render obsolete certain existing products, energy sources, services and technologies currently used by us. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon by us will not be subject to such obsolescence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by us to newer technologies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. The biofuel and chemical industries are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and those associated with compliance and permitting obligations (including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances or waste, or discharges and air and other emissions) as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business segments in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect our operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant and, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 20 Our biofuels operations may be harmed if the government were to change current laws and regulations. Alternative fuels businesses benefit from tax credits and government subsidies. If any of the state or federal laws and regulations relating to the tax credits and government subsidies change, the ability to recover capital expenditures from our alternative fuels business could be harmed. Our biofuels platform is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the application and use of alternative energy products, including those related specifically to biodiesel. For instance, biodiesel products benefit from being the only alternative fuel certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency that fulfills the requirements of Section 211(B) of the Clean Air Act. If agency determinations, laws, and regulations relating to the application and use of alternative energy are changed, the marketability and sales of biodiesel production could be materially adversely affected. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to raw goods and distribution markets. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory transportation, or the location of our manufacturing complex from more lucrative markets may hinder our access to raw goods and/or distribution markets. The availability of a ready market for biodiesel depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of biodiesel and the proximity of the plant to trucking and terminal facilities. The sale of large quantities of biodiesel necessitates that we transport our biodiesel to other markets since the Batesville, Arkansas regional market is not expected to absorb all of our contemplated production. Currently, common carrier pipelines are not transporting biodiesel. This leaves trucks, barges, and rail cars as the means of distribution of our product from the plant to these storage terminals for further distribution. However, the current availability of rail cars is limited and at times unavailable because of repairs or improvements, or as a result of priority transportation agreements with other shippers. Additionally, the current availability of barges is limited, particularly heated barges to transport biodiesel during winter months. If transportation is restricted or is unavailable, we may not be able to sell into more lucrative markets and consequently our cash flow from sales of biodiesel could be restricted. The biodiesel industry also faces several challenges to wide biodiesel acceptance, including cold temperature limitations, storage stability, fuel quality standards, and exhaust emissions. If the industry does not satisfy consumers that these issues have been resolved or are being resolved, biodiesel may not gain widespread acceptance which may have an adverse impact on our cash flow from sales of biodiesel. Our insurance may not protect us against our business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate for our business and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks which cannot be sourced on economic terms. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations (including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution, or environmental damage) occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect our future operations. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring or retaining these personnel could prove more difficult to hire or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our expansion strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. 21 If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our raw materials or finished goods, we may have unexpected losses. We hedge our raw materials and/or finished products for our biofuels segment to some degree to manage the commodity price risk of such items. This requires the purchase or sale of commodity futures contracts and/or options on those contracts or similar financial instruments. We may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark-to-market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. If we do not or are not capable of managing the commodity price risk of our raw materials and/or finished products for our biofuels segment, we may incur losses as a result of price fluctuations with respect to these raw materials and/or finished products. In most cases we are not capable of hedging raw material and/or finished products for our chemicals segment. Certain of our products are produced under manufacturing agreements with our customers which provide us the contractual ability to pass along raw material price increases. However, we do not have this protection for all product lines within the chemicals segment. If we do not or are not capable of managing escalating raw material prices and/or passing these increases along to our customers via prices for our finished products, we may incur losses. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for our operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The operation of our manufacturing plant requires numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits (or modifications thereto) and approvals and, as a result, our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary renewal permits (or modifications to existing permits) and approvals for future expansions may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements. The lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. It is possible that we will not consummate more than one business combination with the proceeds from our July 2006 offering and FutureFuel Chemical Company may be the only target business that we acquire. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon FutureFuel Chemical Company. Unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations of entities operating in multiple industries or multiple areas of a single industry, it is possible that we will not have the resources to diversify effectively our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. We have entered into a $50 million revolving credit facility with a commercial bank. The restrictions governing this indebtedness (such as total debt to EBITDA limitations) may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. If we are unable to meet our future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance such indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We expect to have capital expenditure requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make capital expenditures for the expansion of our biofuels and chemicals production capacity and complementary infrastructure. We intend to finance these capital expenditures primarily through cash flow from our operations, borrowings under our credit facility, and existing cash. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete the projected expansions or capitalize on other business opportunities. 22 We may be unable to successfully integrate future acquisitions with our operations or realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions, if any, in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The difficulties of combining acquired operations include, among other things: · operating a significantly larger combined organization; · consolidating corporate technological and administrative functions; · integrating internal controls and other corporate governance matters; and · diverting management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings, and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher and unexpected acquisition and operating costs, unknown liabilities, and fluctuations in markets. If benefits from future acquisitions do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our shares of common stock may decline. Risks Associated With Owning Our Shares and Warrants The exercise of our warrants are subject to transfer and exercise requirements under the Securities Act. In addition, our warrants are represented by definitive certificates, which could reduce the liquidity of our warrants. The exercise of the warrants for shares of our common stock are subject to certain conditions designed to ensure compliance with U.S. securities laws. More specifically, we are not obligated to deliver securities upon the exercise of a warrant unless we receive a written certification that the exercising warrant holder is neither within the U.S. nor a U.S. person and that the warrant is not being exercised on behalf of a U.S. person (as such term is defined in Regulation S of The United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). In the case of a holder who cannot make the foregoing representation, we may require that the holder provide to us a written opinion of counsel to the effect that the warrants and the shares of our common stock to be delivered upon the exercise of such warrants have been registered under the Securities Act or are exempt from registration thereunder and such securities are qualified for sale or are exempt from qualification under applicable securities laws of the state or other jurisdiction in which the registered holder resides. (We have not, however, required this opinion in each instance in which a warrant was exercised.) As a result, our warrants are represented by definitive certificates which contain the following legend. Prior to investing in the securities or conducting any transactions in the securities, investors are advised to consult professional advisers regarding the restrictions on transfer summarized below and any other restrictions. This security (or its predecessor) was originally issued in a transaction exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and is a restricted security (as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act). This security may not be offered, sold or otherwise transferred in the absence of registration or an applicable exemption therefrom. Hedging transactions involving this security may not be conducted directly or indirectly, unless in compliance with the Securities Act. Each purchaser of this security is hereby notified that the seller of this security may be relying on the exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A or Regulation S thereunder. The holder of this security agrees for the benefit of the Company that (a) this security may be offered, resold, pledged or otherwise transferred, only (i) in the United States to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a qualified 23 institutional buyer (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, (ii) outside of the United\States in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, (iii) pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144 thereunder (if available) or (iv) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in each of cases (i) through (iv) in accordance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States, and (b) the holder will, and each subsequent holder is required to, notify any purchaser of this security from it of the resale restrictions referred to in (a) above. The securities represented by this certificate are subject to transfer restrictions which require that in addition to any certifications required from a transferor as set forth on the reverse of this certificate, prior to the expiration of a distribution compliance period of at least one year, the transferee certifies as to whether or not it is a US person within the meaning of Regulation S and provides certain other certifications and agreements. Prior to permitting any transfer, the Company may request an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company that such transfer is to be effected in a transaction meeting the requirements of Regulation S under the Securities Act or is otherwise exempt from registration under the Securities Act. In order to transfer or sell our warrants, holders must provide the definitive certificates to the transfer agent, who will require certain certifications, and on occasion a legal opinion, prior to issuing new warrant certificates to new warrant holders. The Depository Trust Company, which settles electronic trades, does not allow electronic settlement until the legend has been removed and the certification requirements required under U.S. securities laws have expired. The lack of a fully electronic settlement mechanism may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and the price of our warrants. A minimum holding period for our shares received upon exercise of our warrants will commence upon the exercise of such warrants. The shares of our common stock issued upon the exercise of a warrant generally will be considered restricted securities subject to a six-month holding period as described below. In general, a security holder who has not been our affiliate for three months may resell these securities without any restriction after satisfying the six-month holding period, provided that we are current in our SEC filings. The Rule 144 holding period for the shares of our common stock received upon exercise of our warrants will start upon the exercise of such warrants. Accordingly, holders of our warrants that exercise their warrants for cash will receive shares of our common stock subject to trading restrictions which are greater than those imposed on the trading of previously issued shares. Such restrictions may mean the value of the shares received upon exercise of the warrants may be significantly lower, at least until the six-month holding period has expired, than the shares originally issued. If our founding shareholders and Mr. Novelly or his designees exercise their registration rights, such exercise may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock. Those shareholders holding shares of our common stock prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shareholders”; see “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters -- Founding Shares Owned by the Founding Shareholders” below for a list of the founding shareholders) and Mr. Paul A. Novelly, our executive chairman of the board, or his designees, are entitled to demand that we register under the Securities Act, the resale of their shares of our common stock issued prior to our July 2006 offering (the “founding shares”) and their shares included in the units purchased in our July 2006 offering. The demand may be made at any time after the date on which we have become a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and their founding shares have been released from escrow. This occurred on July 12, 2009. If our founding shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of our common stock, there will be an additional 11,250,000 shares and/or up to 5,000,000 shares issued on exercise of their warrants eligible for trading in 24 the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. We may not list our common stock on a stock exchange other than the OTCBB and we may not list our warrants on any stock exchange. Under the investor rights agreement that we entered into on July 12, 2006 with CRT Capital Group LLC and KBC Peel Hunt Ltd, we are obligated to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause our shares of common stock to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed (to the extent applicable) on the American Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the NASD Automated Quotation System or the NASDAQ National Market (or, in each case, a successor thereto) or a similarly recognized national trading platform, if our common stock so qualifies. Prior to December 2008, we did not satisfy the listing requirements of any such exchange other than the OTCBB. Application for listing was made to the OTCBB and our shares of common stock are quoted thereon. In December 2008, we met the listing requirements for certain of the NASDAQ markets, and we are currently assessing whether listing on a NASDAQ market is commercially reasonable. However, no assurances can be given that we will list our common stock on such exchange, or, if listed, whether our common stock will continue to qualify for quotation or listing on such exchange or other similarly recognized national trading platform, including the OTCBB. We have no obligation to list or quote our warrants on any exchange, and no assurances can be given that we will attempt to cause our warrants to be authorized to be quoted and/or listed on any exchange or recognized national trading platform. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. During 2009, we did not receive any comments from the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 