Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE. We are dependent on our Medicare Supplier Number. We have obtained a Medicare Supplier Number and are required to comply with Medicare Supplier Standards in order to maintain such number. If we are unable to comply with the relevant standards, we could lose our Medicare Supplier Number. The loss of such identification number for any reason would prevent us from billing Medicare for patients who rely on Medicare to pay their medical expenses and, as a result, we would experience a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, all third party and Medicaid contracts require us to have a Medicare Supplier Number. Without such a number, we would be unable to continue our various third party and Medicaid contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon our Medicare Supplier Number. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) has issued a ruling that all DME providers must be accredited by a recognized accrediting entity by September 30, 2009. On February 17, 2009, we received accreditation from Community Health Accreditation Program (CHAP), thus meeting this CMS requirement. 8 Table of Contents Changes in third-party reimbursement rates may adversely impact our revenues. We depend primarily on third-party reimbursement for the collection of our revenues. We are paid directly by private insurers and governmental agencies, often on a fixed fee basis, for continuous infusion equipment and related disposable supplies provided to patients. If the average fees allowable by private insurers or governmental agencies were reduced, the negative impact on revenues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, if collection amounts owed to us by patients and insurers is reduced, we may be required to increase our bad debt expense and/or decrease our revenues. Any change in the overall healthcare reimbursement system may adversely impact our business. Changes in the healthcare reimbursement system often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance of continuous infusion therapy may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the healthcare reimbursement system. Changes to the health care reimbursement system that favor technologies or treatment regimens other than InfuSystem’s or that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities that use InfuSystem’s products, may adversely affect InfuSystem’s ability to market its products profitably. Our success is impacted by the availability of the chemotherapy drugs that are used in our continuous infusion pump systems. We primarily derive our revenue from the rental of ambulatory infusion pump systems to oncology patients through physicians’ offices and chemotherapy clinics. A shortage in the availability of chemotherapy drugs that are used in the continuous infusion pump systems, including the commonly-used chemotherapy drug known as 5-Fluorouracil, could have a material adverse effect on InfuSystem’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For instance, we believe that a shortage of 5-Fluorouracil in the fourth quarter of 2005 resulted in an unfavorable revenue impact in excess of $1,000,000, and a shortage of Leucovorin in late 2008 and early 2009 caused some minor impacts to revenue timing without a material impact on our overall results. Shortages of 5-Fluorouracil, Leucovorin or other commonly-used chemotherapy drugs could negatively impact InfuSystem’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If future clinical studies demonstrate that oral medications are as effective or more effective than continuous infusion therapy, or if such studies demonstrate that alternative therapies that do not utilize continuous infusion therapy are more effective than current standards of care, our business could be adversely affected. Continuous infusion therapy is currently preferred by many physicians over oral medication treatment despite the more cumbersome aspects of maintaining a continuous infusion regimen. The reasons for these physicians’ preference are varied, including a belief that continuous infusion therapy involves fewer adverse side effects, reduces compliance issues and may provide greater therapeutic benefits. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing, evaluating and comparing the therapeutic benefits of current continuous infusion-based regimens with various oral medication regimens. If these clinical trials demonstrate that oral medications provide equal or greater therapeutic benefits and/or demonstrate reduced side effects compared to prior oral medication regimens, our revenues and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if new oral medications are introduced to the market that are superior to existing oral therapies, physicians’ willingness to prescribe continuous infusion-based regimens could decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Continuous infusion therapy is currently used in a variety of therapeutic regimens that are standards of care for particular types and stages of cancer. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing evaluating oral chemotherapy agents as well as other combinations of drugs, both oral and infused. InfuSystem has no influence over the outcome of trials including whether they are favorable or not favorable toward the use of continuous infusion therapy. If such trials demonstrate superior clinical outcomes for regimens that do not use continuous infusion relative to the outcomes of those that do use continuous infusion, our business could be negatively impacted. 9 Table of Contents The current global financial crisis may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. The current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, as well as the uncertainty in global economic conditions, have resulted in a significant tightening of credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets and reduced corporate profits and capital spending. As a result, our customers (patients and payors) may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In addition, the current global financial crisis could also adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, either of which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The financial crisis could also adversely impact our ability to access the financial markets. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past, especially given the current turmoil of the worldwide economy. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change. If we fail to comply with any state’s laws, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state and our business operations will be adversely affected. As a DME supplier operating in all 50 states of the United States, we are subject to each state’s licensure laws regulating DME suppliers. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change and we must ensure that we are continually in compliance with the laws of all 50 states. In the event that we fail to comply with any state’s laws governing the licensing of DME suppliers, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state until we regain compliance. We may also be subject to certain fines and/or penalties and our business operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes expanding into treatment for cancers other than colorectal. There can be no assurance that continuous infusion-based regimens for these other cancers will become standards of care for large numbers of patients or that we will be successful in penetrating these different markets. An aspect of our growth strategy is to expand into the treatment of other cancers, such as head, neck and gastric. Currently, relatively small percentages of these patients are treated with regimens that include continuous infusion therapy. That population will expand only if clinical trial results for new drugs and new combinations of drugs demonstrate superior outcomes for regimens that include continuous infusion therapy relative to alternatives. No assurances can be given that these new drugs and drug combinations will be approved or will prove superior to oral medication or other treatment alternatives. In addition, no assurances can be given that we will be able to penetrate successfully any new markets that may develop in the future or manage the growth in additional resources that would be required. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors, our business operations may suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. We compete in this industry based primarily on service and performance. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do for research and development, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our services may be superior. The industry is subject to technological changes and such changes may put our current fleet of pumps at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may materially suffer. 10 Table of Contents Our industry is dependent on regulatory guidelines that affect our billing practices. Given our large presence in the industry, we run the risk of losing business to competitors due to our unwillingness to compromise acceptable billing practices dictated by CMS and other insurance plans. Aggressive competitors (e.g. smaller regional companies) may not fully comply with rules pertaining to documentation required by CMS and other payors for patient billing. Competitors who don’t meet the same standards of compliance that we do with regards to billing regulations, can put us at a potential competitive disadvantage. We are a participating provider with Medicare and under contract with more than 200 additional insurance plans, all of which have very stringent guidelines. Our strong commitment to fully meeting compliance with CMS Supplier Standards, HIPAA/Security Rules, CHAP accreditation requirements and commercial payor guidelines may put us at risk of losing customers to competitors with more lenient billing practice standards which could appear more convenient to the customer. We rely on independent suppliers for our products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of products, particularly our supply of electronic ambulatory pumps, may negatively impact our operations. Our infusion pumps are obtained from outside vendors. The majority of our pumps are electronic ambulatory infusion pumps which are supplied to us by three major suppliers: Smiths Medical, Inc.; Hospira Worldwide, Inc.; and WalkMed Infusion, LLC (formerly known as McKinley Medical, LLC). The loss or breakdown of our relationships with even one of these outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of our products to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of products could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. Our inability to provide products to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we do not manufacture the products we distribute, if one of the products distributed by us proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner or patient, we may be subject to liability that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not manufacture the products that we distribute, a defect in the design or manufacture of one of the products distributed by us, or a failure of products distributed by us to perform for the use specified, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of products distributed by us by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject us to liability. Any substantial underinsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and prospects for future business. We intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Future strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities to us. Over the next two to three years we intend to actively pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and/or acquisitions. Any future strategic alliances, joint ventures or acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable partners or acquisition candidates, as the case may be, negotiate acceptable terms for such transactions and obtain financing, if necessary. Under the terms of the Credit and Guaranty Agreement with Kimberly-Clark (formerly I-Flow), we are not permitted to complete any business acquisitions. We also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates which may increase our costs. Acquisitions or other investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Any future acquisitions of businesses could also expose us to unanticipated liabilities. 11 Table of Contents The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that may ultimately prove to be incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If management misinterprets GAAP in making such estimates and judgments, subsequent adjustments resulting from errors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments from errors could require us to restate our financial statements. Restating financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. RISK FACTORS RELATING SPECIFICALLY TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND WARRANTS The market price of our common stock and warrants has been, and is likely to remain, volatile and may decline in value. The market price of our common stock and warrants has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of healthcare services companies, including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that appear unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our securities: • announcements of technological innovations, new products, or clinical studies by others; • government regulation; • changes in the coverage or reimbursement rates of private insurers and governmental agencies; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • changes in our quarterly financial condition or operating results; • the liquidity of the market for our common stock and warrants; • changes in health care policies in the United States or globally; • the current global financial crisis; and • comments by securities analysts and general market conditions. The realization of any risks described in these “Risk Factors” could also have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock and warrants. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. Under the terms of the Credit and Guaranty Agreement with Kimberly-Clark (formerly I-Flow), we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we do not pay dividends. Holders of our warrants may not be able to exercise the warrants if we do not maintain an effective registration statement and current prospectus covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants. If we do not maintain an effective registration statement and a current prospectus covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants or comply with applicable state securities laws, holders of our warrants may not be able to exercise the warrants issued by us. In order for holders of our warrants to be able to exercise the warrants, the shares of common stock underlying the warrants must be covered 12 Table of Contents by an effective registration statement and a current prospectus or be qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the state in which the warrant holder resides. Although we cannot assure holders of our warrants that we will have a successful registration outcome with the SEC, we will use our best efforts to provide an effective registration statement and a prospectus covering the shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding warrants at all times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition to the shares of our common stock currently available for sale in the public market, shares of our common stock sold in past private placements (which include shares held by certain members of our board of directors) and the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding warrants are subject to registration rights. If the holders of these securities choose to exercise their registration rights, this would result in an increase in the number of shares of our common stock available for resale in the public market, which in turn could lead to a decrease in our stock price and a dilution of stockholders’ ownership interests. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. As of February 25, 2010 we had 18,749,144 shares of our common stock outstanding not including the 35,108,219 shares of common stock underlying our outstanding warrants. Our Warrant Exchange Offer may not achieve our desired results. On February 16, 2010, we offered to exchange shares of our common stock for any or all of our outstanding warrants. By offering warrantholders the opportunity to exchange their outstanding warrants for common stock, we hope to encourage warrantholders to exchange their warrants immediately so that we can eliminate or reduce the warrant overhang on our common stock and attract new equity investors. We also expect that the Exchange Offer will increase the number of holders of our common stock which we anticipate will facilitate our ability to list the common stock on a national securities exchange. If a significant number of warrantholders choose not to exchange their warrants for shares of common stock, we may be unsuccessful in removing the overhang, attracting new equity investors, and/or listing our common stock on a national securities exchange. Because our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares in the secondary trading market may be limited. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Consequently, the liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if our common stock was quoted and traded on an exchange. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the DGCL contain certain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our stockholders may consider favorable and, as a result, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. The Board of Directors may use the blank check preferred stock to implement a shareholder rights plan as a defensive measure against a potential acquiror. Our amended and restated bylaws include provisions establishing advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and director nominations and permitting only stockholders holding at least a majority of our outstanding common 13 Table of Contents stock to call a special meeting. Our amended and restated bylaws also provide that in lieu of a meeting, stockholders may only take action by unanimous written consent. Additionally, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to section 203 of the DGCL, which, among other things, and subject to various exceptions, restricts certain business transactions between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock (“an interested stockholder”) for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 