Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE Our business is substantially dependent on third-party reimbursement. Any change in the overall health care reimbursement system may adversely impact our business. Our revenues are substantially dependent on third-party reimbursement. We are paid directly by private insurers and governmental agencies, often on a fixed fee basis, for the use of continuous infusion equipment and related disposable supplies provided to patients. If the average fees allowable by private insurers or governmental agencies were reduced, the negative impact on revenues could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, if amounts owed to us by patients and insurers are reduced or not paid on a timely basis, we may be required to increase our bad debt expense and/or decrease our revenues. Changes in the health care reimbursement system often create financial incentives and disincentives that encourage or discourage the use of a particular type of product, therapy or clinical procedure. Market acceptance of continuous infusion therapy may be adversely affected by changes or trends within the health care reimbursement system. Changes to the health care reimbursement system that favor other technologies or treatment regimens that reduce reimbursements to providers or treatment facilities, including increasing competitive pressures from home health care and other companies that use our services, may adversely affect our ability to market our services profitably. On August 16, 2012, the CMS announced the timetable for RD1RC, which includes a new product category for external infusion pumps and supplies affecting nine Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). We submitted our bid in December 2012. On October 3, 2013, we announced that we had received offers to provide external infusion pumps and supplies in all nine of the MSAs put out to bid by CMS in RD1RC. Since that date, we have entered into contracts with CMS for these respective MSAs effective January 1, 2014. The impact of the reduced contract price from the current rates in these nine MSAs approximates $250,000 annually based on current volume in those respective MSAs. By 2016, CMS is scheduled to fully implement some form of competitive bidding. The impact of this 2016 schedule and RD1RC is not easily identifiable, is unclear at this time, and could, among many factors, negatively impact our market share, negatively impact business with our customers and other payors, and significantly reduce revenue, earnings and cash flow. 12 Table of Contents Any federal government shutdown may adversely impact our business. Our revenues are dependent on private insurers and governmental agencies. In the absence of any bipartisan agreement in the federal government with respect to payments from governmental agencies, our revenue could be reduced. In addition, any federal government shutdown could also have an adverse impact on our business. Our business may be adversely impacted by the recent sequestration signed into law in the United States. On March 1, 2013, most agencies of the federal government automatically reduced their budgets according to an agreement made by Congress in 2012 known as “sequestration”. Originally devised as an incentive to force Congressional agreement on budget issues, the sequestration order was approved on March 1, 2013 by the President of the United States. During this year, we felt the impact of the sequestration order, which effects Medicare payments, reducing revenue quarterly by less than $0.1 million since that date. In the absence of any bipartisan agreement in the federal government with respect to the sequestration order generally or relief from sequestration applicable to Medicare payments, this reduction will continue. Concentration of customers may adversely impact our business. A substantial portion of our contracted payor revenue has been dependent on one payor or a limited concentration of payors. In particular, Medicare represented approximately 31% of our gross billings for ambulatory infusion pump services for the year ended December 31, 2013 and accounted for 16% our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2013. To the extent such dependency continues, significant fluctuations in revenues, results of operations and liquidity could arise if Medicare or any other significant contracted payor reduces its reimbursement for the services we provide. On October 14, 2012, a major group of third party payors revised their claim processing guidelines that affected all DME providers. Prior to the change, DME providers were allowed to submit claims to their “home plan” and the claims were processed in-network. Since the change in guidelines, DME providers are now required to submit their claims to the payor in the state where services were initiated. If the DME provider is not a participating provider with that specific payor, the claim is treated out-of-network and the patient will incur higher costs. Therefore, we must collect a higher portion of reimbursement directly from patients, which creates an increased collection risk. This major payor’s association selected us as a preferred provider, which will help us in securing contracts in areas currently out-of-network. Our billing process is dependent on meeting payor claims processing guidelines which are subject to change at the discretion of the payors. Such changes would materially impact our ability to bill and the timing of such billings, which could materially impact our revenue, bad debt, and cash flow. Increased focus on early detection and diagnostics may adversely affect our business. An increased focus on lowering health care spending via improved diagnostic testing (i.e., defensive medicine) and patient monitoring could negatively affect our business. A large portion of our ambulatory infusion pumps are dedicated to a specific form of cancer (i.e., colorectal). As a result of rising health care costs, there may be a demand for more cost-effective approaches to disease management, specifically for colorectal cancer, as well as for emphasis on screening and accurate diagnostic testing to facilitate early detection of potentially costly, severe afflictions. Any change in the approach to treatment of colorectal cancer could have an adverse impact on our revenue. If future clinical studies demonstrate that oral medications are as effective as or more effective than continuous infusion therapy, our business could be adversely affected. Numerous clinical trials are currently ongoing, evaluating and comparing the therapeutic benefits of current continuous infusion-based regimens with various oral medication regimens. If these clinical trials demonstrate 13 Table of Contents that oral medications provide equal or greater therapeutic benefits and/or demonstrate reduced side effects compared to prior oral medication regimens, our revenues and overall business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if new oral medications are introduced to the market that are superior to existing oral therapies, physicians’ willingness to prescribe continuous infusion-based regimens could decline, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on our Medicare Supplier Number. We are required to have a Medicare Supplier Number in order to bill Medicare for services provided to Medicare patients. Furthermore, all third party and Medicaid contracts require us to have a Medicare Supplier Number. We are required to comply with Medicare Supplier Standards in order to maintain such number. If we are unable to comply with the relevant standards, we could lose our Medicare Supplier Number. The loss of such identification number for any reason would prevent us from billing Medicare for patients who rely on Medicare to pay their medical expenses and, as a result, we would experience a decrease in our revenues. Without such a number, we would be unable to continue our various third party and Medicaid contracts. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent upon our Medicare Supplier Number. The CMS issued a ruling that all DME providers must be accredited by a CMS approved accreditation organization. On February 17, 2009, we initially received accreditation from the Community Health Accreditation Program (“CHAP”), and we were recertified in February 2012, thus meeting this CMS requirement. If we lost our accredited status, our financial condition, revenues and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our success is impacted by the availability of the chemotherapy drugs that are used in our continuous infusion pump systems. We primarily derive our revenue from the rental of ambulatory infusion pumps to oncology patients through physicians’ offices and chemotherapy clinics. A shortage in the availability of chemotherapy drugs that are used in the continuous infusion pump system could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The impact of United States health care reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) was enacted to reform the United States health care system. The ACA is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time, resulting in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of health care. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations, including patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. Many provisions of the ACA will become effective as various government agencies adopt new and revised regulations, some of which have not yet been promulgated, and we expect that additional guidance and specificity will be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the ACA on our business, the legislation could have a material effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The enactment of the ACA is likely to result in reduced reimbursements or delayed payments by the Federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare and Medicaid and other Federal or state assistance plans in which we participate. We may also face reduced reimbursements from private third party payors. As a result, our customers (i.e., patients and payors) may be unable to make timely payments to us. Although we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of 14 Table of Contents our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past. If we begin to experience an increase in our loss rates in excess of our allowances for doubtful accounts it could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge, and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected. While management believes that controls and processes are satisfactory, there can be no assurance that accounts receivable collectability will remain at current levels. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change. If we fail to comply with any state laws, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state and our business operations will be adversely affected. As a DME supplier operating in all 50 states, we are subject to each state’s licensure laws regulating DME suppliers. State licensure laws for DME suppliers are subject to change and we must ensure that we are continually in compliance with the laws of all 50 states. In the event that we fail to comply with any state’s laws governing the licensing of DME suppliers, we will be unable to operate as a DME supplier in such state until we regain compliance. We may also be subject to certain fines and/or penalties and our business operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes expanding into treatment for cancers other than colorectal. There can be no assurance that continuous infusion-based regimens for these other cancers will become standards of care for large numbers of patients or that we will be successful in penetrating these different markets. An aspect of our growth strategy is to expand into the treatment of other cancers, such as head, neck and gastric. This population of patients will expand only if clinical trial results for new drugs and new combinations of drugs demonstrate superior outcomes for regimens that include continuous infusion therapy relative to alternatives. No assurances can be given that these new drugs and drug combinations will be approved or will prove superior to oral medication or other treatment alternatives. In addition, no assurances can be given that we will be able to penetrate successfully any new markets that may develop in the future or manage the growth in additional resources that would be required. Our business may be subject to natural forces beyond our control. Natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other unfavorable weather conditions, may affect our operations. Natural catastrophes may have a detrimental effect on our gross billings, preventing many patients from visiting a facility to obtain our ambulatory infusion pumps or receive treatment. Similarly, such events could impact key suppliers or vendors, disrupting the services or materials they provide us. The severity of these occurrences, should they ever occur, will determine the extent to which and if our business is materially and adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors, our business operations may suffer. The drug infusion industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do for information technology, marketing and sales. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our services may be superior. The industry is 15 Table of Contents subject to technological changes and such changes may put our current fleet of pumps, smart pump licensing, our information technology solutions or our other technological-based solutions at a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, the healthcare industry, in general, is experiencing market consolidation, reducing the number of decision makers. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may materially suffer. Our industry is dependent on regulatory guidelines that affect our billing practices. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. Aggressive competitors may not fully comply with rules pertaining to documentation required by CMS and other payors for patient billing. Competitors, who do not meet the same standards of compliance that we do with regards to billing regulations, can put us at a potential competitive disadvantage. We are a participating provider with Medicare and under contract with approximately 260 additional insurance plans, all of which have very stringent guidelines. If our competitors do not comply with these regulatory guidelines, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on independent suppliers for our products. Any delay or disruption in the supply of products, particularly our supply of electronic ambulatory pumps, may negatively impact our operations. Our infusion pumps are obtained from outside vendors. The majority of our new pumps are electronic ambulatory infusion pumps which are supplied to us by three major suppliers: Smiths Medical, Inc.; Hospira Worldwide, Inc.; and WalkMed Infusion, LLC (formerly known as McKinley Medical, LLC). The loss or disruption of our relationships with outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of pumps to customers. Significant delays in the delivery of pumps could result in possible cancellation of orders and the loss of customers. Our inability to provide pumps to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we do not manufacture the products we distribute, if one of the products distributed by us proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner or patient, we may be subject to liability that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not manufacture the pumps that we distribute, a defect in the design or manufacture of a pump distributed by us, or a failure of pumps distributed by us to perform for the use specified, could have a material effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of the pumps distributed by us by a practitioner or patient that results in injury could similarly subject us to liability. Any substantial underinsured loss could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material effect on our revenues and prospects for future business. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances and/or joint ventures. Future strategic alliances and/or joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities to us. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities for the further expansion of our business through strategic alliances and/or joint ventures. Any future strategic alliances or joint ventures will depend on our ability to identify suitable partners, negotiate acceptable terms for such transactions and obtain financing, if necessary. These investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. If we engage in strategic acquisitions, we may experience significant costs and difficulty in assimilating operations or personnel, which could threaten our future growth. If we make any acquisitions, we could have difficulty assimilating operations, technologies and products and services. In addition, we could have difficulty integrating or retaining personnel and maintaining employee 16 Table of Contents morale as we take steps to combine the personnel and business cultures of separate organizations into one and to eliminate duplicate positions and functions. It may also be difficult for us to preserve important relationships with others, such as strategic partners, customers, and suppliers, who may delay or defer decisions on agreements with us, or seek to change existing agreements with us, because of the acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may involve entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management’s and employees’ attention from our ongoing business operations, result in decreased operating performance and increase our expenses. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization of intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with health care professionals. We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities. We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary service and improvements to complement and expand our existing service and product lines. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to market and sell new and improved products and services could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. If we fail to comply with applicable health care regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain federal and state health care laws and regulations, including those pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights are applicable to our business. The laws that affect our ability to operate include: • The federal health care program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce (i) the referral of an individual, for an item or service, or (ii) the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • Federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us that promote medical devices, provide medical device management services and may provide coding and billing advice to customers; • The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and • State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ in significant ways from state to state and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. 17 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to implement information technology improvements or respond to technological changes, our growth, prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our technology solutions and services. We are in the process of implementing a service to support EMR technology that will enable billing information to be transferred between the Company and medical facilities electronically and automatically, thus eliminating the current use of mail, email and/or faxes. If this initiative is unsuccessful, our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and contributors will be adversely affected. Furthermore, we are likely to incur expenses in connection with continuously updating and improving our technology infrastructure and services. Without such improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow application performance or unreliable service levels, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and contributors. We may face significant delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. If competitors introduce new products and services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology and systems may become obsolete or less competitive, and our business may be harmed. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance that our business will improve. Technological interruptions or the efficiency of our website and technology solutions would damage our reputation and brand and adversely affect our results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation, our ability to attract and retain customers and our ability to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability of services could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand or adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience temporary system interruptions for a variety of reasons, including security breaches and other security incidents, viruses, telecommunication and other network failures, power failures, software errors or data corruption. We rely upon third-party service providers, such as co-location and cloud service providers, for our data centers and application hosting, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide continuous power, cooling, internet connectivity and physical security for our servers. In the event that these third-party providers experience any interruption in operations or cease business for any reason, or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, our business could be harmed and we could be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. Although we operate two data centers in an active/standby configuration for geographic and vendor redundancy and even though we maintain a third disaster recovery facility to back up our content collection, a system disruption at the active data center could result in a noticeable disruption of our services. Even a disruption as brief as a few minutes could have a negative impact on marketplace activities and could therefore result in a loss of revenue. Because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results. In order to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation of trade secrets or any unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce or determine the scope of our trade secret rights and related confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, or our competitors’ acquisition of our trade secrets, could adversely affect our competitive business position. 18 Table of Contents We are dependent upon executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our businesses and achieve our business plan, which could cause our sales to decline and our operating results and cash flows to suffer Our success is substantially dependent on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel who generally have extensive experience in our industry. Our future success also will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified executive officers, managerial, finance, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of any executive officer or other key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. Covenants in our debt agreement restrict our business. The credit agreement contains, and the agreements that govern our future indebtedness may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • Engage in a transaction that results in a change of control, as defined by the agreement governing the Credit Facility; • Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any lien upon any of our property, assets or revenues; • Make certain investments or acquisitions; • Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any indebtedness; • Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • Make any disposition or enter into any agreement to make any disposition; and • Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any dividend or other restricted payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so. The loss of a relationship with one or more third party payors could negatively impact our business. Our contracts for reimbursement with third party payors are often for a term of one year, with automatic one-year renewals, unless we or the contracted payor do not wish to renew. These evergreen contracts are subject to termination upon written notice. One or more terminations could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. As of the date of this filing, we are unaware of any intention by one or more of our largest contracted third party payors to terminate or not renew agreement(s) with us such that we would experience a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. Economic uncertainty or economic deterioration could adversely affect us. While the global economy is improving, there are still uncertainties surrounding the strength of the recovery that may continue to drive stock market and interest rate volatility and adversely impact consumer confidence and product demand. We cannot predict when widespread global economic confidence will be restored. Economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access the financial markets. Accordingly, our future business and financial results are subject to uncertainty. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. RISK FACTORS RELATING SPECIFICALLY TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to remain, volatile, subject to low trading volume and may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Market prices for securities of health care services companies, including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has 19 Table of Contents from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that appear unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, among others, can have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • Announcements of technological innovations, new products, or clinical studies by others; • Government regulation; • Changes in the coverage or reimbursement rates of private insurers and governmental agencies; • Announcements regarding new products or services or strategic alliances or acquisitions; • Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • The liquidity of the market for our common stock; • Changes in health care policies in the United States or globally; • Global financial conditions; and • Comments by securities analysts and general market conditions. The realization of any risks described in these “Risk Factors” could also have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. Under the terms of our credit agreement, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited and we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we do not pay dividends. The exercise of options may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common stockholders. There are a significant number of outstanding options to purchase our stock. If the market price of our common stock rises above the exercise price of outstanding options, holders of those securities may be likely to exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options exercise those options, our common stockholders will incur dilution in their relative percentage ownership. As of December 31, 2013, options to purchase 1.6 million shares of common stock were outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $2.11 per share, of which 1.3 million were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $2.21 per share. Limitation on Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Certain Built-In Losses Following Ownership Change If an ownership change occurs – either via a major transaction or a series of trades where a substantial percent of the ownership changes, not necessarily a majority, we may be limited in our ability to use our deferred tax assets and may have to record a valuation allowance against such assets. There is an ownership change if, immediately after any owner shift involving a 5-percent shareholder or any equity structure shift, the percentage of the stock of the corporation owned by 1 or more 5-percent shareholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points, over the lowest percentage of stock of the corporation (or any predecessor corporation) owned by such shareholders at any time during the testing period. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term “50-percent shareholder” means any person owning 50 percent or more of the stock of the corporation at any time during the 3-year period ending on the last day of the taxable year with respect to which the stock was so treated. 20 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter of 2013 we completed an update to our analysis of past ownership changes (as defined under Section 382 of the Code), and as a result we believe that we have not experienced an ownership change since December 31, 2010. The Company has undertaken a definitive analysis necessary to quantify the effect of ownership change as of December 31, 2010 on the net operating loss carryforwards generated prior to December 31, 2010. Based on the analysis, the Company is subject to an annual limitation of $1.8 million on its use of pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards of $8.6 million (and certain other pre-change tax attributes). The Company federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $13.9 million will begin to expire in various years beginning in 2028. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 