Risk Factors.” Bingo Market Currently, our primary competitors in our existing electronic bingo market are VKGS, LLC, or Video King, formerly a division of BK Entertainment Corp. and GameTech International, Inc., or GameTech. We believe that we are focused on the high performance segment of the electronic bingo market, while many of our competitors serve the mass market segment where bingo player terminals are less expensive and have fewer features and technological capabilities. In addition to Video King and GameTech, a number of other companies compete in the electronic bingo market including the recently merged Planet Bingo, LLC and Melange Computer Services, Inc., Blue Dog, Inc., Electronic Gaming Solutions, Inc. and California Concepts, Inc. Many of our bingo market competitors offer stationary and portable bingo player terminals. We are not aware of any competitors with an installed base of bi-directional wireless player terminals and only a few of them currently deliver any wireless technology. Our competitors’ existing one-way RF communication technology may limit their ability to offer more advanced versions of bingo or traditional casino games, such as keno, slots and poker on a wireless player terminal. Emerging Mobile Gaming Market The casino markets are highly regulated, have stringent product requirements and high system integrity and security requirements. We anticipate that these factors will continue to pertain as the Nevada mobile gaming market develops. In the emerging mobile gaming market, we expect to encounter competition from new entrants who seek to meet these market requirements. Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a large financial services company that already offers wireless sports betting in the United Kingdom, is expected to seek Nevada’s approval for its technology. At least two other gaming technology companies, Chimera Technology Corp. and Diamond I, Inc. have announced their strong interest in the emerging mobile gaming market. Although we expect these and other companies to be attracted to the potentially lucrative Nevada mobile gaming market, we believe it will be difficult for such companies to fully meet the market’s requirements. For instance, obtaining Nevada gaming licenses can be difficult, costly and time consuming. Also it can be difficult to gain market recognition in the very demanding Nevada gaming market. Lastly, some of these companies have indicated that they plan to use off-the-shelf personal digital assistants as their wireless gaming terminals. We question whether such products can achieve regulatory and market acceptance. 9 In addition, large gaming equipment manufacturers in the Nevada slot machine market, including Aristocrat Leisure, Ltd., Alliance Gaming Corporation and WMS Gaming Inc., may also attempt to enter the emerging mobile gaming market. At least three well established gaming equipment manufacturers, International Game Technology, or IGT, Shuffle Master, Inc., and Progressive Gaming International Corporation have expressed interest in entering the emerging mobile gaming market. These companies are much larger than we are and are well entrenched in the existing gaming market. The United States gaming equipment market has historically been dominated by IGT, currently the largest gaming equipment manufacturer in the world. However, we are not aware of any mobile gaming devices being field tested by these companies with a possible exception of Progressive Gaming International Corporation, which is currently field testing wireless sports wagering terminals that may be viewed by some as mobile gaming terminals, even though such sports wagering terminals are not considered to be gaming devices under the existing Nevada statutes and regulations. Finally, traditional casino operators may attempt to enter the emerging mobile gaming markets themselves. Most of these companies are much larger than we are and have greater resources than we do. Research and Development Since our inception in 1989, we have continuously developed innovative gaming and entertainment products for our customers. We have internally developed all critical aspects of our gaming platform and have outsourced only the volume manufacturing of parts and subassemblies. We design all of our software, including all of our source code and all of our user interfaces and graphic art for our player terminals. We also design all of our hardware, including both electronic and mechanical components, all printed circuit board diagrams and layouts, and all 3D and 2D mechanical drawings for all our plastic and metal parts. We expect to continue to emphasize the research and development aspect of our business. Research and development costs for the year ending December 31, 2006 were $648,463. Customers Currently, our customers are bingo hall operators in the commercial casino, tribal casino and charitable bingo markets. As the mobile gaming market develops in Nevada, we anticipate selling or leasing our mobile gaming platform products to a broader group of casino operators in Nevada and in other jurisdiction if mobile gaming is approved in these jurisdictions and the operation of our mobile gaming devices is specifically approved in these jurisdictions. 10 We have a broadly diversified and geographically dispersed customer base. Sales to charitable organizations in Texas represented approximately 33% of our revenues during 2006. Sales to entities affiliated with the Gila River Indian Community represented approximately 4% of our revenues during 2006. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Except where we are contractually or statutorily prohibited from doing so, we market our products to customers through direct and indirect channels. Our direct channel consists of our own marketing efforts as well as marketing through Millennium, our wholly-owned subsidiary. We also distribute our products to our customers through our indirect channel consisting of a network of authorized distributors, operating in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia. Our distributor agreements typically have one-year initial terms with successive one-year automatic renewals. Our distributors provide valuable services to our customers, including immediate on-site customer support. During 2006, sales through our single-largest distributor, K&B Sales Incorporated, doing business as Good Time Bingo, represented approximately 33% of our revenues. During 2006, sales through Atlantic Bingo Supply, Inc., another of our distributors, represented approximately 11% of our revenues. The profit margins from the distributor facilitated accounts are lower than the profit margins typical for our direct accounts because the latter do not involve any commissions paid to distributors. We are focused on strengthening our direct account sales and marketing capability, which we believe will result in a rising proportion of higher margin direct house accounts. We generate a significant amount of our revenue from domestic customers. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, our domestic revenues were 98%, 98% and 98%, respectively. During 2004, 2005 and 2006, our international revenues were 2%, 2% and 2%, respectively. Customer Support We provide comprehensive support services to our customers either directly or through our distributors. We also provide 24/7 hotline support to our customers. Although most of the technical problems are typically resolved over the telephone or by replacing failed equipment with spare parts, in critical cases, our field service personnel have to perform on-site maintenance and technical training. The on-site maintenance is provided by us as an accommodation to our customers and is not required by our contracts. We do not provide any performance, fitness of use or similar warranty or guaranty to our customers. An important part of customer service is the initial installation and training of customer personnel. From time to time, we also perform customer service at locations directly serviced by our distributors, particularly when a distributor is new or inexperienced. Our personnel, particularly our management team, are composed of experts in the gaming field whose advice is well regarded by our customers. We continually provide our advice to our customers regarding our gaming platforms and compliance with regulatory matters related to our gaming platforms. 11 Our BingoStar platform can be easily configured by bingo hall personnel for any desired bingo games, patterns, prizes and sessions, without the involvement of ourselves or the local distributor. Our BingoStar platform allows our technicians to reprogram all stationary and wireless player terminals on-site. Where permitted by law and authorized by our customers, we can also remotely reprogram most of the components of our BingoStar platform utilizing secure communication protocols. Intellectual Property With the expiration of one of our patents in August of 2006, we hold two United States patents expiring in 2010, which relates to a lottery-type wagering game, and one United States patent expiring in 2012, which relate to a magnetic bingo board. We do not rely on any licensing revenue related to any of these patents. We have also filed additional patent applications that are currently pending in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We are the registered owner of trademarks FortuNet®, Mega Fortune® and BingoStar®, as well as pending trademark applications, including WIN-WIN™ and AIMS™. In addition, each of our employees has executed an agreement to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and to assign to us any intellectual property that they conceive of in the scope of and during their employment with us. Government Regulation The gaming industry and the gaming equipment manufacturing industry exist within a stringently controlled regulatory environment and are subject to federal, state, tribal, local and foreign regulation. Companies participating in these industries must hold the required gaming licenses, permits or other approvals in all jurisdictions in which they conduct business. Many jurisdictions also require the licensing or a finding of suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees, the termination or disassociation with such officer, director, key employee or major stockholder that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; and the submission of reports of material loans, leases and financings; and the regulatory approval of some commercial transactions, such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in the company. These regulatory burdens are imposed upon gaming-related suppliers or vendors on an ongoing basis. The regulatory agencies that oversee these jurisdictions not only continually scrutinize license holders, but in some cases also approve the types of products that can be sold by equipment manufacturers and used by operators. The standards for product approval vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, although the Nevada standards are generally the most stringent. Various aspects of our business are subject to gaming regulation. Depending on the nature of the noncompliance, our failure to comply with these regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. 12 Our electronic bingo products, including the wireless and stationary units, are subject to stricter scrutiny than traditional paper bingo products. We believe electronic bingo player units are legal in all tribal jurisdictions, United States Armed Forces bases, 27 states, and in a growing number of foreign jurisdictions. Electronic bingo in charitable bingo halls is less widely permitted than paper bingo, largely because many states’ laws and regulations were written before electronic bingo technology was available. We believe that electronic bingo is permitted in 27 of the 48 states in the United States in which paper bingo is legal. Favorable changes in this regulatory environment occurred in the recent decade. Licensing Requirements Currently, we are licensed as a gaming equipment manufacturer or distributor in several states and tribal jurisdictions. We intend to seek the necessary licenses, approvals and findings of suitability for our products and our personnel in other jurisdictions where there is an opportunity to market our products. We cannot assure you that we will obtain the necessary licenses, approvals or findings of suitability in a timely fashion or at all. If obtained, we cannot assure that the licenses, approvals or findings of suitability will not be revoked, suspended or conditioned or that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals for our future products as they are developed. If a license, approval or finding of suitability is required by a regulatory authority and we fail to receive the necessary license, approval or finding of suitability, we may be prohibited from distributing our products for use in the applicable jurisdiction or may be required to distribute our products through other licensed entities at a reduced profit. Nevada Regulation The Nevada Mobile Gaming Law On June 6, 2005, Nevada enacted the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law. This law enabled the Nevada Gaming Commission, with the advice and assistance of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, to promulgate regulations governing the operation of mobile gaming and the licensing of operators, manufacturers and distributors of mobile gaming equipment and systems in Nevada. Before adopting the regulations, the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law required the Nevada Gaming Commission to determine that mobile gaming systems could be operated in compliance with all applicable laws, be secure and reliable and provide reasonable assurance that gaming devices would be operated only by players of lawful age and only in approved areas. These determinations were made and the final regulations under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law were adopted on March 23, 2006. The Nevada Mobile Gaming Law defines “mobile gaming” as conducting gaming through communication technology and devices that allow a player to transmit information to a computer that assists in placing a bet or wager and corresponding information related to the display of the game and its outcome. “Communications technology” is defined to mean the method and components employed by a gaming establishment to facilitate the transmission and reception of information, including wireless networks, wireless fidelity, wire, cable, radio, microwave, light, optics or computer data networks. Mobile gaming can only be conducted in “public areas” of a gaming establishment that operate at least 100 slot machines and at least one other game. Public areas specifically exclude hotel rooms or living accommodations. The regulations as adopted define “mobile gaming systems,” “operator of a mobile gaming system,” “equipment associated with mobile gaming” and “public areas” for purposes of the law. 13 The Nevada Mobile Gaming Law mandated that the revenue of operators and manufacturers of mobile gaming systems will be subject to the same licensing fee provisions to which currently licensed gaming establishments are subject with respect to the operation of other games and gaming devices and that mobile gaming devices will be subject to the same fees and taxes as are slot machines. Based upon the regulations as adopted, we believe that our current non-restricted gaming licenses allow us to manufacture and distribute our mobile gaming platforms in Nevada without additional licensing requirements. Our mobile gaming platforms for playing traditional casino games will be required to be approved before they may be deployed in Nevada casinos. Policy Concerns of Nevada Gaming Laws The laws, regulations and supervisory practices of most gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. In the case of Nevada, these public policy concerns include, among other things: • preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming or the manufacture or distribution of gaming devices at any time or in any capacity; • establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; • maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs, and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable record keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada gaming authorities; • preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and • providing a source of state and local revenue based on taxation and licensing fees. Changes in these laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our operations, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Individual Licensing Requirements The Nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us in order to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Individual licensing is not a prerequisite to become an officer of our company, but the person becoming an officer must apply for individual licensing within 30 days of becoming an officer. Currently, Yuri Itkis, Boris Itkis, Jack Coronel and William R Jacques Jr. are licensed. Licensing is not a prerequisite to become a director of FortuNet and we do not anticipate that any of our independent directors will be required to be licensed as a result of serving as a director. The Nevada gaming authorities may deny any application for any cause they deem reasonable. Granting of an individual license requires a concomitant determination of suitability of the applicant. A finding of suitability and grant of an individual license requires submission of detailed personal and financial information, followed by a thorough investigation. An applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability must pay for all the costs of the investigation. We reimbursed our employees for the cost of seeking and maintaining licenses obtained at our request, including Yuri Itkis, Boris Itkis, Jack B. Coronel and William R. Jacques, Jr. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada gaming authorities may disapprove a change in a corporate position, such as a change in job title or substantive job responsibilities. If the Nevada gaming authorities were to find any of our personnel required to be licensed unsuitable for licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications or refuses to pay the required investigative fees. Determinations of suitability or of questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada. Consequences of Violating Gaming Laws If the Nevada Gaming Commission determines we violated the Nevada Gaming Control Act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming licenses. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Gaming Control Act, or the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission, at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of our gaming licenses or related registrations could, and revocation of any gaming license or registration would, have a material adverse effect on our gaming operations. Requirements for Beneficial Securities Holders Unless we are registered as a publicly traded corporation by the Nevada Gaming Commission, no person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of profits from, us without first obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Commission. We have also requested and obtained approval from the Nevada Gaming Commission for exemptions available under the Nevada Gaming Control Act that will generally exempt the beneficial holders of our securities from the mandatory licensing requirements. This exemption will apply to current and future beneficial holders of our securities. 15 Regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial holder of our voting securities, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have that person’s suitability as a beneficial holder of voting securities determined if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. An exemption from the licensing requirements does not have the effect of exempting a beneficial owner from a suitability determination if the Nevada Gaming Commission requires such determination. If the beneficial owner of our voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires five percent or more of any class of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires beneficial owners of 10 percent or more of a registered company’s voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board mails the written notice requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor,” as defined in the Nevada Gaming Control Act, which acquires 10 percent or more, but not more than 15 percent, of the registered company’s voting securities may apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a waiver of the finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. An application to be considered as an institutional investor is a separate application and the applicant is required to pay the applicable investigative fees. An institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of its business as an institutional investor and were not acquired and are not held for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations or the registered company or any of its gaming affiliates or any other action that the Nevada Gaming Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities for investment purposes only. Activities that are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: • voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; • making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and • other activities the Nevada Gaming Commission may determine to be consistent with the investment intent. 16 Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Yuri Itkis, and our Chief Technical Officer, Boris Itkis, and our Chief Marketing Officer, Jack Coronel, and our Chief Financial Officer, William R Jacques Jr., who have been found suitable by various gaming authorities. If a gaming authority in any jurisdiction fails to find any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders suitable, we may be prohibited from leasing, licensing or selling our products in that jurisdiction. We are unaware of any facts or circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders suitable. Consequences of Being Found Unsuitable Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to an owner of record if the owner of record, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of times as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest in us or to have any other relationship with us, we: • pay that person any dividend upon any voting securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to us; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. A finding of suitability is generally determined based upon a myriad of facts and circumstances surrounding the entity or individual in question and many gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular entity or individual is suitable. We are unaware of any facts or circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, directors or significant stockholders suitable. Gaming Laws Relating to Securities Ownership The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any common stock, debt or similar security of a registered company to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the common stock, debt or other security of the registered company if the Nevada Gaming Commission has reason to believe that the ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. If the Nevada Gaming Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, the registered company may be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission, it: 17 • pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or other distribution; • recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; • pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or • makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the Nevada gaming authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record owner may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada gaming authorities. A failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record owner unsuitable. We will be required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owners of our voting securities. The Nevada Gaming Commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend stating that the securities are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act, but has not imposed this requirement on us. If the Nevada Gaming Commission were to impose this requirement, we expect that we would seek an exemption from this requirement. Approval of Changes in Control As a registered company, we must obtain prior approval of the Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a change in control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct by which anyone obtains control of us. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the Nevada Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaming Commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of a registered company. The Nevada Gaming Commission also may require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons who have a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. Approval of Defensive Tactics The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees, and registered companies that are affiliated with those operations, may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Gaming Commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy to: 18 • assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliates; • preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and • promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. Because we are a registered company, approvals may be required from the Nevada Gaming Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above their current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Gaming Control Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company’s board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. Fees and Taxes We pay license fees and taxes computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved. These fees and taxes, depending upon their nature, are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon either a percentage of the gross revenues received or the number of gaming devices operated. Annual fees are also payable to the State of Nevada for renewal of our manufacturers and distributors licenses, OILS license and our Mobile Gaming license. Our cost of fees and taxes for the years ending 2004, 2005 and 2006 were $97,503, $91,410 and $87,515 respectively. Foreign Gaming Investigations Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or who is under common control with those persons, collectively, “licensees,” and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Gaming Control Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation by the Nevada Gaming Control Board of the licensee’s or registrant’s participation in foreign gaming. We currently comply with this requirement. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Gaming Commission. Licensees and registrants are required to comply with the reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Gaming Control Act. A licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if it: • knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; • fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations; 19 • engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of Nevada; • engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or • employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability. Federal Registration The Federal Gambling Devices Act of 1962, the “Johnson Act,” makes it unlawful for a person to manufacture, transport, or receive gambling machines, gambling devices or components across interstate lines unless that person has first registered with the United States Attorney General. We have complied with the registration requirements of the Johnson Act. Gambling devices must also be identified and we must keep certain records in accordance with the Johnson Act’s requirements. If we violate the Johnson Act, our equipment may be seized or forfeited and we may be subject to other penalties. Tribal Gaming Regulation When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non- tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all, and may expose us to an increased risk of contract repudiation as compared to that inherent in dealing with non-tribal customers. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. Gaming on tribal lands, including the terms and conditions under which gaming equipment can be sold or leased to tribal users, is governed by federal law, tribal-state compacts and tribal gaming regulations. The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, “IGRA,” provides the framework for federal and state control over all gaming on tribal lands and is administered by the National Indian Gaming Commission and the Secretary of the United States Department of the Interior. IGRA requires that the tribe and the state enter into a written agreement, a tribal-state compact that governs the terms of certain types of gaming activities. We are not aware of any state in which a tribal-state compact seeks to regulate bingo. 20 The regulations and ordinances adopted by tribal authorities vary but generally impose standards and technical requirements on gaming hardware and software, and may impose registration, licensing and background check requirements on gaming equipment suppliers and their officers, directors and stockholders similar to typical requirements imposed by Nevada gaming authorities. Traditional Casino Game Regulation Traditional casino games, such as poker, keno and video slots, are regulated much more stringently than bingo games. The number of jurisdictions in which traditional casino games are currently permitted is relatively small in comparison to the number of jurisdictions in which bingo is permitted. The State of California just entered into compacts with a large number of tribal authorities. The evolution of the regulation of traditional casino games is very difficult to predict, and no assurance can be provided that our planned entrance into the traditional casino game market with mobile gaming platforms will be successful. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had employed 47 employees, including 20 employees in the manufacturing and service department, 18 employees in the engineering programming department and 9 employees in the administration and sales department. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our failure to obtain approvals under the regulations promulgated under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law will negatively impact our growth strategy. Notwithstanding our receipt of an Operator of Mobile Gaming Systems license by the Nevada Gaming Commission, the regulations promulgated under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law require us to obtain specific approval of our mobile gaming devices for use in Nevada casinos. If we are unable to obtain or maintain approval of our mobile gaming platform as required by the regulations, we will be unable to manufacture, distribute and operate wireless player terminals that enable casino players to play casino games in public areas of gaming establishments as permitted by the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law. Our inability to comply fully, or at all, with the mobile gaming regulations may result in substantial additional development costs and preclude us from executing our growth strategy. The regulations require that our mobile gaming systems be approved by the Nevada Gaming Lab before we may distribute these systems to Nevada casinos. The Nevada Gaming Lab may impose significant requirements on the functionality or design of mobile gaming systems that may be manufactured, distributed or operated in Nevada. To the extent that our existing mobile gaming platform may not comply with such requirements, we would need to undertake additional research and development activities that may be costly, time consuming or require the procurement of components that are scarce in supply. Despite undertaking additional research and development activities, we may not be able to design or develop a mobile gaming platform that complies with the standards adopted by the Nevada Gaming Lab, in which case we would be unable to manufacture, distribute or operate wireless player terminals that enable casino players to play traditional casino games in the public areas of gaming establishments permitted under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, and therefore be unable to fully execute our growth strategy. 21 Our failure to maintain our current licenses and regulatory approvals or failure to maintain or obtain licenses or approvals for our gaming devices in any jurisdiction will prevent us from operating in that jurisdiction and possibly other jurisdictions, leading to reduced overall revenue. As a manufacturer, distributor and operator of gaming platforms, we currently hold licenses in a number of jurisdictions, including Nevada. Our officers, including our major stockholder, Yuri Itkis, are required to obtain and maintain licenses, permits and other forms of approval in certain jurisdictions. We are under continuous scrutiny by the applicable regulatory authorities. Our or our officers’ current regulatory approvals may be revoked, suspended or curtailed at any time. Our or our officers’ failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. The failure to maintain a license in a single jurisdiction or a denial of a license by any new jurisdiction may cause a negative “domino effect” in which the loss of a license in one jurisdiction could lead to regulatory investigation and possible loss of a license in other jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions also require licenses, permits or other forms of approval for specific gaming devices. If other jurisdictions adopt mobile gaming laws similar to the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, these approval requirements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a general matter, the regulatory approval of devices involving traditional casino games is more difficult to obtain than those for bingo products. Some jurisdictions require the regulatory approval of entities and individuals before the pursuit of regulatory approval of specific gaming devices, but other jurisdictions allow the pursuit of such regulatory approvals concurrently. Although we and the individuals associated with us may obtain regulatory approval in a particular jurisdiction, we may not be able to manufacture, distribute or operate our mobile gaming platforms in that jurisdiction without separate and specific regulatory approval of our mobile gaming platform. Any failure of our gaming platform to meet the requirements for approval or to obtain the approval in any jurisdiction will cause us to not be able to distribute our gaming platforms in the jurisdiction. If we are unable to retain our senior employees or attract other key personnel our operations may suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our key personnel. We depend heavily on the ability and experience of a small number of senior executives who have substantial experience with our operations and the electronic gaming device industry, including Yuri Itkis, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman; William Jacques, our Chief Financial Officer and Controller; Jack Coronel, our Chief Marketing Officer and Director of Compliance and Strategic Development; and Boris Itkis, our Chief Technical Officer and Vice President of Engineering. The loss of any of these senior executives or the failure of any of these senior executives to obtain or maintain the requisite regulatory licenses, permits or determination of suitability would have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the Nevada gaming authorities may disapprove a change in a corporate position, such as a change in job title or substantive job responsibilities. Any such disapproval would prevent us from redeploying our senior executive talent in new functional roles even if management desires to do so. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain key marketing personnel and key managers as we further develop our products and as we enter new markets and expand in existing markets. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting arising from the current level of staffing in our accounting department; we may not be able to augment our current level of staffing with qualified individuals on a timely basis. Due to licensing requirements of these personnel that may be imposed by gaming authorities, our pool of potential employees may be more limited than in other industries. Competition for individuals with the skills required is intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting such personnel. In addition, we may not be able to retain such individuals as they may leave our company and go to work for our competitors. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. If other gaming jurisdictions do not adopt mobile gaming legislation similar to the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, or on any terms at all, we will be unable to implement our growth strategy outside of Nevada. Our ability to execute fully our growth strategy in jurisdictions other than Nevada depends upon other gaming jurisdictions adopting mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games. Currently, Nevada is the first and the only state to enact legislation authorizing mobile gaming for traditional casino games. Although we are not aware of any tribal gaming authority that has specifically prohibited mobile casino gaming involving traditional casino games, we are also not aware of any that have approved it, even though many tribal gaming authorities in practice allow mobile bingo gaming. The adoption of gaming legislation can be affected by a variety of political, social and public policy forces and gaming jurisdictions other than Nevada may not adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games in the foreseeable future. To the extent that other jurisdictions do adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games, we may not be able to comply fully with the legislation without incurring substantial additional development costs, or at all. If we are required to modify our mobile gaming platform to comply with such potential legislation, we may suffer the increased costs of maintaining multiple variants of our mobile gaming platform to comply with the differing legislation of different jurisdictions. If other gaming jurisdictions fail to adopt mobile gaming legislation involving traditional casino games or we are unable to comply with such legislation without substantial additional costs, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy. 23 Our failure to obtain gaming licenses or other regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions would preclude us from expanding our operations into and generating revenue from these jurisdictions. The manufacture and distribution of gaming devices are subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Some jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most jurisdictions require licenses, permits or other forms of approval of the manufacturers, distributors and operators of gaming devices, including evidence of financial stability, and of the suitability of their officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees. The regulatory agencies conduct in-depth investigations of gaming device manufacturer licensees as well as detailed personal background checks of key employees and major stockholders of the licensees. Obtaining requisite approvals of state and tribal gaming authorities is a time-consuming and costly process. Even after incurring significant time and expense in seeking regulatory approvals, we may not be able to obtain them. Our failure or the failure of our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our products and generating revenue in that jurisdiction. We operate in a highly competitive industry and expect the market for mobile gaming devices to become increasingly competitive, which may negatively affect our operations and our ability to maintain relationships with gaming establishments. The market for gaming devices generally is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify as the market for mobile gaming devices develops. We currently compete with other providers of electronic bingo products, such as VKGS, LLC, or Video King, formerly a division of BK Entertainment Corp., GameTech International, Inc., the recently merged Planet Bingo, LLC and Melange Computer Services, Inc., Blue Dog, Inc. Electronic Game Solutions, Inc. and California Concepts, Inc. in the marketing of our BingoStar wireless bingo systems. Although none of our competitors that manufacture mobile bingo devices is currently licensed in Nevada other than GameTech International, Inc., we may face competition from these providers in the market for mobile gaming devices in the future. Given the market penetration, name recognition, marketing resources and familiarity with the gaming device industry generally, traditional casino game device manufacturers could be a significant competitive threat to us. We expect fierce competition from multiple large competitors dominating their respective markets in our expansion efforts, such as Aristocrat Leisure, Ltd., International Game Technology, Alliance Gaming Corporation, WMS Gaming Inc. and Shuffle Master, Inc., that may enter the market for mobile gaming devices. In addition, we may in the future face potential competition from new entrants into the gaming device market, such as Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a large financial services company that already offers wireless sports betting in the United Kingdom, and at least two other gaming technology companies, Chimera Technology Corp. and Diamond I, Inc. Finally, traditional casino operators, most of whom are much larger than us, may attempt to enter the emerging mobile gaming market. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers, proprietary technology, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources and more readily available access to capital that could allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. 24 Other providers of electronic bingo products have in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the prices of their products to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to reduce our prices or provide other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our failure to retain and extend our existing contracts with customers and to win new customers would negatively impact our operations. All of our lease contracts relate to our electronic bingo products. In 2006 we derived 99.7% of our revenues and cash flow from our portfolio of contracts to lease electronic bingo products to gaming establishments, such as casinos, and bingo halls. Our contracts are typically for a term ranging from one to three years in duration and several are on a month-to-month basis. Not all of our contracts preclude our customers from using bingo devices of our competitors. Upon the expiration of one of our contracts, a gaming establishment may award a contract through a competitive procurement process, in which we may be unsuccessful in winning the new contract or forced to reduce the price that we charge the gaming establishment in order to renew our contract. In addition, some of our contracts permit gaming establishments to terminate the contract at any time for our failure to perform and for other specified reasons. The termination of or failure to renew or extend one or more of our contracts, or the renewal or extension of one or more of our contracts on materially altered terms could, depending upon the circumstances, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results and prospects. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from direct sales to our customers, or house accounts, which we service ourselves, without any involvement of outside distributors. Although such accounts typically involve higher profit margins, the competition for these accounts is very keen. We typically negotiate one to three year, automatically renewable leases for our bingo units with our direct customers. The house account contracts tend to be challenging to maintain and enforce, especially those with tribal gaming operators, and therefore, we may not be able to retain lucrative house accounts indefinitely. A loss of any such account may have a severe negative impact on our revenue. A material reduction in the yield on our investment of the proceeds of our initial public offering and our retained earnings could materially and adversely affect our net income and earnings per share. Because we have not yet begun full-scale production of mobile gaming devices under the Nevada Mobile Gaming Law, we have invested the bulk of the proceeds of our initial public offering and retained earnings. Our net income and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 depended substantially on the yield that we achieved on these investments. Approximately 28% of our income before tax during 2006 resulted from these investments. Although we have invested these proceeds in relatively conservative investments, there can be no assurance that we will continue to enjoy the same yields on these investments as we did during 2006. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these investments will continue to generate a positive yield. Assuming no other changes in our sources of revenues, any decrease in the yield on these investments, and any loss on these investments, would directly reduce our revenues. 25 Losing any of our small number of independent distributors upon whom we depend for a significant portion of our revenue would negatively impact our operations. We are dependent upon a small number of independent distributors to market and sell our products to casinos and bingo halls. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 58.6% of our revenues were derived through nine distributors. During the same period, we derived approximately 32.7% of our revenue from our single largest distributor. Due to our payment of commissions to distributors, our customer contracts derived from distributors generate lower profit margins than our contracts derived from direct sales, or house accounts. Because we do not directly control our distributors or their customer intake practices, contracts with customers derived from distributors may be susceptible to higher default rates and lower profit margins than our house accounts. Some of our distributors are not contractually prohibited from marketing or selling products of our competitors. Our contracts with our distributors typically cover one to three year terms and are automatically renewed for one year unless terminated upon the expiration of the then current term. Upon the expiration of a contract term, we may not be able to renew any of these contracts on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our competitors may provide incentives to our distributors to market and sell their products in addition to or in lieu of ours. The loss of any of our distributors may result in a material reduction in our revenue, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties with the limited number of manufacturers and suppliers upon whom we rely for components of our products would negatively impact our production capacity, customer relationships and operations. We purchase most of the parts, components and subassemblies necessary for the manufacture of our products from outside sources. We assemble these parts, components and subassemblies into finished products in our manufacturing facility. While most of the parts, components and subassemblies are produced by more than one manufacturer and can be purchased through more than one supplier, we currently rely upon approximately 12 vendors from whom we purchase substantially all of our components. We currently obtain the touch screens for our wireless gaming terminals from a single supplier. While changing suppliers for this component is not impossible, doing so would require significant time and effort on the part of our engineering and management teams and may cause us to miss revenue generating opportunities until we are able to obtain touch screen monitors from a new supplier. In addition, the supplies of the central processing units, memory and peripheral drives for our mobile gaming platforms are often uncertain and subject to significant backlogs from time to time due to spikes in general demand for such products. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third party manufacturers and suppliers of these and other components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. 26 To procure certain parts, components and subassemblies, we sometimes commit to supply contracts in which we commit to purchase large quantities over extended periods of time. By doing so, we are exposed to a number of risks. If the market prices of these components drop below the prices at which we are committed to purchase them, our purchase commitments may preclude us from taking advantage of reductions in market prices. If the components are surpassed by superior technology that becomes available after we make our purchase commitments, our purchase commitments may preclude us from taking advantage of technological advancements. If a change in the design or specifications of our products results in a substitution or elimination of a component, we may be forced to write off a substantial quantity of obsolete inventory of components or to sell such components in the open market at a loss. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our components on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with customers and materially and adversely harm our business. For those components that we procure under supply contracts, if any of such supply contracts were to be terminated or breached, we may not be able to procure an alternate supply on terms as favorable to us in time, or at all. We may suffer lengthy delays in our manufacturing process while we seek to procure an alternate supply. A delay in our ability to manufacture products may adversely affect our goodwill with customers, expose us to liability to customers and result in the loss of business opportunities. Any alternate supply of parts, components or subassemblies may be more expensive to us or may require us to undertake additional engineering activities to integrate the alternate supply into our products or manufacturing process. Certain parts, components and subassemblies for our products are manufactured outside of the United States, which exposes us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations, political and economic instability and limited protection of intellectual property. If our wireless gaming terminals do not achieve and maintain widespread acceptance by gaming establishments and casino game players as a means to play traditional casino games, our business operations will not grow as anticipated. Our current business depends on the preferences of gaming establishment players that play bingo games, and our growth strategy depends on the preferences of gaming establishment players that play traditional casino games, such as poker, keno and slots. The tastes and preferences of players of bingo and traditional casino games are known to change over time. If the bingo games or traditional casino games that we enable gaming establishment players to play using our wireless gaming terminals do not appeal to players to the degree anticipated, our mobile gaming platforms will not be fully utilized and our business will suffer. 27 The success of our growth strategy will depend to a large extent on broad market acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals among casinos and their players who play traditional casino games. The only market acceptance that our wireless gaming terminals currently enjoy is as a means to play bingo games electronically. Even if we are successful in deploying mobile gaming platforms that enable casino players to play traditional casino games, gaming establishments and their players may still not use our wireless gaming terminals for a number of reasons, including preference for live dealers, preference to play casino games in a traditional environment using traditional equipment, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. We believe that the acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals by gaming establishments and their players will depend on our ability to demonstrate the economic and other benefits of our products to gaming establishments, casino players becoming comfortable with using our wireless gaming terminals, the attractiveness of the casino games that players can play using our wireless gaming terminals, ease of use, and the reliability of the hardware and software that comprise our mobile gaming platforms. Initially, we intend to offer our customers equipment lease agreements under which we will lease our wireless gaming terminals and the associated equipment. However, if and when market acceptance of our wireless gaming platforms has been established, we may be required to sell wireless gaming platforms to customers rather than lease them because of the prevailing practices of casino operators to purchase rather than lease equipment. However, if our wireless gaming terminals fail to quickly achieve market acceptance as a means to play traditional casino games, our customers may not renew their leases or may not purchase our mobile gaming platforms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Any change in our business model from the lease of wireless gaming terminals to the sale of gaming terminals may result in an eventual reduction of our revenues. We currently derive substantially all of our revenues by leasing our wireless gaming terminals and associated equipment to our gaming establishment customers. If and when market acceptance of our wireless gaming terminals is established, our gaming establishment customers may prefer to purchase our wireless gaming terminals rather than lease them. If we sell our wireless gaming terminals in the future, we must price them in a manner that reflects the ongoing lease revenues that leasing them generates. If we are unable to sell our wireless gaming terminals for a sales price in excess of the lease revenues that we would otherwise receive, our revenues may eventually decline. Our failure to comply with tribal regulation and tribal laws would preclude us from operating in tribal jurisdictions and deriving revenue therefrom. We are required to obtain licenses and approvals from tribal authorities in order to operate in tribal jurisdictions. When seeking approvals from or licensing with tribal-owned or tribal-controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses of our gaming platforms or licenses to operate on tribal lands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 28 We may not be able to enforce our contractual rights against tribal governments or agencies, which may negatively impact our operations. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience and tribal judiciaries are not always independent. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. Our inability to enforce our contract rights under tribal law could negatively impact our operations. Disrupted operation of our server-based gaming systems caused by the network infrastructure of the casinos in which they are installed would cause dissatisfaction among customers and gaming establishments and may harm our operating results. We expect to enter into agreements with customers that operate casinos and bingo halls in more than one location. In such cases, we anticipate that our agreements with such customers will provide that the customer will be responsible for providing, at its expense, a dedicated high-speed computer network connection between our server-based gaming systems in the various locations operated by the customer to a remote central gaming server supporting such systems. Failures or disruptions of a customer’s dedicated high-speed connection that result in the stoppage of play or in reduced performance of our server-based gaming system could disrupt players’ gaming experience, adversely affect the casinos’ or bingo halls’ satisfaction with our gaming devices, delay market acceptance of our mobile gaming platforms and harm our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our customers have to reserve, for our exclusive use, certain radio frequency, or RF, channels of adequate capacity to accommodate reliable and expedient wireless communication between our wireless player terminals and central game file servers. We expect to spend substantial amounts on research and development, but these efforts may fail or lead to operational problems that could negatively impact our operations. In order to compete effectively in an era of technological changes, we must continuously enhance our existing products and develop, introduce and market new products and services. As a result, we expect, as needed, to continue to make a significant investment in product development. Our development of products is dependent on factors such as assessing market trends and demands and obtaining requisite governmental approvals. Although we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development opportunities, we may fail to develop any new products or services or enhancements to existing products. Even if new products or services are developed, these products or services may not prove to be commercially viable, or we may not be able to obtain the various gaming licenses and approvals necessary to manufacture and distribute these products or provide these services to our customers. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products will meet evolving industry standards and casino or player demands. 29 Changes in technology may make our inventory obsolete and cause significant losses. Future technological advances in the gaming equipment market may result in the availability of new products or increase the efficiency of existing products. We may not be able to adapt to such technological changes. If a technology becomes available that is more cost-effective or creates a superior product, we may be unable to access such technology or its use may involve substantial capital expenditures that we may be unable to finance. Existing, proposed or as yet undeveloped technologies may render our technology less viable, less profitable or obsolete. We may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against companies possessing such technologies. If we were to fail to develop our product and service offerings to take advantage of technological developments, we may fall behind our competitors and our business, financial condition, results and prospects could suffer. If technological advances render our current inventory of products obsolete, we may suffer significant revenue losses and write-downs of our assets. Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming platforms could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. The real and perceived integrity and security of mobile gaming is critical to its ability to attract players. We strive to set exacting standards of system security for the systems that we provide to gaming establishments, and our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with our customers and regulators, such as the Nevada Gaming Commission and other governmental agencies. For this reason, an actual or alleged system security defect or failure attributable to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of our mobile gaming platforms. Although our mobile gaming platforms are subject to rigorous internal testing and will be subject to additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions, we may not be able to build and maintain products that are free from defects or manipulations and that satisfy these tests. Although we have taken rigorous steps to prevent defects and manipulations, our gaming platforms could suffer from such defects and manipulation after they are put into operation. 30 Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or bingo hall, gain access to the central game file server on which our server-based mobile gaming platform operates and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and, in turn, termination of leases, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, casinos and bingo halls may replace our gaming platforms if they do not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our server-based gaming platform and loss of licenses, leases and sales. In addition, the occurrence of defects in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming platforms may give rise to claims for lost revenue and related litigation by our gaming establishment customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. Improper conduct of our employees could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business operations. The real and perceived integrity and security of mobile gaming is critical to its ability to attract players. We strive to set exacting standards of personal integrity for our employees and reliable security for the gaming platforms that we provide to our customers, and our reputation in this regard is an important factor in our business dealings with Nevada Gaming Commission and other governmental agencies. For this reason, any allegation or a finding of improper conduct on our part, or on the part of one or more of our employees, or an actual or alleged security defect with our gaming platform or failure attributable to us, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results and prospects, including our ability to retain existing contracts or obtain new or renewal contracts, or the loss of gaming licenses or other regulatory approvals. Our failure to properly manage growth would adversely affect our business operations. In order to implement our business strategy, we must effectively manage rapid growth in our manufacturing, sales and customer support operations. This rapid growth will strain our existing management, financial and other resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we will have to expand our management team, integrate new personnel and augment our marketing and production capabilities. To rapidly produce large volumes of wireless gaming terminals, we will have to formulate and implement design, production planning, manufacturing and quality assurance plans that are unlike those we have used in the past. These plans may strain our manufacturing and industrial engineering capabilities and resources. Rapid growth would also require us to improve our financial, accounting and operational systems and controls. Expansion into new geographic areas would further strain our limited operational and marketing resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, we may fail to execute our business strategy and our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. 31 Possible future acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and strain our resources. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire businesses, services and technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities, provide us with valuable customer contacts or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may complete, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be impaired. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: · Difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; · Difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies to our technology platforms and business processes; · Diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · Potential loss of key employees; · Inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; and · Potential write-offs of acquired assets. Acquisitions also frequently result in recording of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our operating results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Such dilution could adversely affect the market price of our stock. It is also possible that at some point in the future we may decide to enter new markets, thus subjecting ourselves to new risks associated with those markets. Our patents and proprietary rights may not be enforceable, may not be cost effective to enforce or may not provide significant competitive advantage, which could negatively impact our operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon protecting our intellectual property rights. We have three United States patents relating to our products and corresponding patents in certain foreign countries. Of the three patents, two expires in 2010 and one expire in 2012. The patents that we own now or in the future may not provide us with significant competitive advantages or may be impaired by challenges to the validity or enforceability of such patents. For example, in the past the validity of one of our patents has been repeatedly challenged. Others may independently develop similar or more advanced technologies or products or design around aspects of our technology that may be patented. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without our authorization or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. For example, we are pursuing a patent infringement action against Planet Bingo, LLC and Melange Computer Services, Inc. to discontinue what we believe to be their infringement of our rights arising under of our patents. Both defendants have counterclaimed that our patents are invalid and Planet Bingo, LLC has alleged that our operations infringe one of its patents. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed discussion of this litigation. If these counterclaims are successful, our patents may be invalidated or limited in scope or we may be forced to modify or discontinue our operations or pay substantial damages. If litigation that we initiate is unsuccessful, including the litigation described above, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property and our business could be adversely affected. 32 We have patent applications that are currently pending before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These patent applications may not result in any patents being issued. If these patent applications do not become issued patents, our competitors would not be prevented from using these inventions described in the applications. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. If a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources. In addition, we may not be able to deter current and former employees, consultants, and other parties from breaching confidentiality agreements with us and misappropriating proprietary information from us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on the value of our intellectual property, our reputation, our business and our operating results. We may not be able to obtain additional financing if required, which could harm our operations and ability to generate revenue. Our ability to manufacture our gaming platforms on a large scale may require us to obtain additional financing necessary for the manufacture of such hardware components and expansion of our inventory. The net proceeds that we have received from the sale of the shares of common stock in our initial public offering together with revenue that we generate from operations may not be sufficient to execute our growth strategy. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue or if our working capital and manufacturing capacity is not capable of keeping up with demand, we will need to seek additional equity or debt financing to provide the capital required to maintain or expand our production capabilities. We may not be able to obtain needed additional equity or debt financing on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we are able to obtain such financing, existing stockholders may suffer dilution and the equity or debt securities issued to raise such financing may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to implement our business plan, respond to changing business or economic conditions, withstand adverse operating results and compete effectively. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when and if required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even ceased and our ability to generate revenues would be materially impaired. 33 Our inability to lease suitable facilities may harm, delay or prevent our operations. The long term lease for our Las Vegas, Nevada facility, which is our only facility, expires in December 2010. This facility provides us with a convenient central location from which to service our customers. We may not be able to extend the lease on its current terms or, if required, locate new adequate manufacturing facilities on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Relating to Our Industry A decline in the popularity of gaming could reduce the demand for our products. We provide mobile gaming platforms to gaming establishments to enable players to play bingo in several jurisdictions, including Nevada, and traditional casino games on cruise lines. When legally permitted, we intend to provide mobile gaming platforms to enable players to play traditional casino games using our wireless player terminals in Nevada. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for the games that we enable. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past, and may in the future, decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Therefore, during periods of economic contraction, our revenue may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed, resulting in decreased earnings. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit all or some gaming activities all together in its jurisdiction. A decline in gaming activity as a result of these or any other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in consumer preferences could also harm our business. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment, and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments competes with Internet-based gaming for gaming players, and we do not serve the Internet gaming market. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores, and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our gaming platforms may decline and our business may be adversely affected. Expansion of the gaming industry faces opposition that could limit our access to some markets and impair our growth. We expect a substantial portion of our future growth to result from the general expansion of the gaming industry. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support of national, local and tribal governments. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referenda, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular jurisdictions may prevent us from expanding our operations into new markets. A failure by the gaming industry to expand at the rate that we expect could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates, financial condition and operating results. 34 Gaming opponents continue to persist in efforts to curtail the expansion of legalized gaming. Unfavorable public referendums, anti-gaming legislation or unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or operators of gaming products may materially and adversely impair our business and growth prospects. Gaming opponents may be successful in preventing the legalization of mobile gaming in jurisdictions where mobile gaming may be presently prohibited or in limiting the expansion of mobile gaming where it is currently permitted, in either case to the detriment of our business, financial condition, results and prospects. Future acts of terrorism, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending and air travel, may impact our industry and may harm our operating results. Future terrorist attacks similar to those of September 11, 2001, may have a significant impact on the travel and tourism industries upon which the gaming industry, and we in turn, depend. In general, our Nevada-based gaming establishment customers are adversely affected by disruptions in air travel, regardless of cause. Although, our gaming establishment customers in markets outside of Nevada, which are not as dependent on air travel, may not experience as much business disruption, the potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future acts of terror in the United States or an outbreak of hostilities involving the United States may reduce players’ willingness to travel, with the result that our operations will suffer. The amounts that our customers pay to us are based on usage of our devices. Accordingly, reduced usage results in reduced payments to us. Although the revenue we generate from our gaming devices may decline as a result of reductions in air travel or consumer spending, our contracts do not generally provide our customers with the right to terminate their contracts with us as a result of reductions in air travel or consumer spending. We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters and other severe catastrophic events, including hurricanes. We have suffered casualty losses as a result of natural disasters (e.g. Hurricane Katrina), and any disruption to our business resulting from natural disasters will adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The strength and profitability of our business depends on player demand for our products at gaming establishments. The impact of natural disasters, the outbreak of infectious diseases and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could negatively affect gaming activity and consequently, the demand for and use of our products at affected gaming establishments. Disruptions of gaming establishment operations, as a result of natural disasters and other catastrophic events beyond our control, would also reduce the number of gaming establishments that offer our products. 35 We operate our business primarily through gaming platforms, including wireless and stationary player terminals, cashier-based POS terminals and self-service POS kiosks, used by players at gaming establishments and bingo halls. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our physical assets are in locations beyond our direct control, including areas of Louisiana that sustained major damage as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Generally, our business may also be adversely affected by any damage to or loss of equipment that we install at gaming establishments resulting from theft, vandalism, terrorism, flood, fire or any other natural disaster. Our insurance may not be adequate to recover our losses from these events. The amounts that our customers pay to us are based on usage of our devices. Accordingly, reduced usage results in reduced payments to us. Although the revenue we generate from our gaming devices may decline as a result of a natural disaster, our contracts do not generally provide our customers with the right to terminate their contracts with us as a result of a natural disaster. Beneficial holders of our securities are subject to regulation by the Nevada gaming authorities, which may result in required applications for license, findings of suitability and mandatory redemption of shares. Because we are a registered company under the Nevada Gaming Control Act, any person who acquires five percent or more of any class of our voting securities is required to report the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming Commission. The Nevada Gaming Control Act requires any person who acquires 10 percent or more of our voting securities to apply to the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chairman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. If such person fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada gaming authorities, or if such person refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the Nevada gaming authorities in connection with such person’s application, the person may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to the owner of record if the owner of record, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any person found unsuitable and who holds any voting security may be guilty of a criminal offense. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: · pay that person any dividend upon any voting securities; · allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right relating to us held by the person; · pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or · fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person’s voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that persons who acquire five percent or more of the beneficial ownership of our outstanding capital stock notify us and consent to any background investigation or other requirements imposed by any gaming authority. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation also provide for mandatory redemption of its shares if the beneficial owner fails to comply with any applicable gaming law requirements. 36 Certain Nevada statutes have potential anti-takeover effects that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and depress the price of our common stock. Nevada statutes regulating business combinations, takeovers and control share acquisitions may hinder or delay a change in control of our company. In addition, under Nevada law, any change of control of our company must also be approved by the Nevada gaming authorities. Other jurisdictions may have similar requirements. These statutes could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may limit our stockholders’ ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeovers and tender offer bids, even if such events could be viewed as beneficial by our stockholders. ITEM 