ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the price of our common shares could decline significantly and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Reinsurance and Insurance Businesses We may experience difficulty in integrating our recent acquisition of Embarcadero into our operations and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our acquisition of Embarcadero in November 2006 involves a number of risks to our business, including some or all of the following: • the diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • the disruption of our ongoing business; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no experience; • the ability to integrate the acquisition without substantial costs, delays or other problems; • managing a much larger combined business, including implementing adequate internal controls; • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; • a failure to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that Majestic has insured and loss reserves that are inadequate to cover actual losses; • the incorporation of and development of diversified workers’ compensation insurance products; • the failure to realize expected synergies and costs savings; • the loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business; • increasing demands on our operational systems; and • possible adverse effects on our reported operating results. The Embarcadero acquisition is the first acquisition that we have completed since becoming a public company. The expansion of our business and operations resulting from the Embarcadero acquisition may strain our administrative, operational and financial resources. The successful integration of Embarcadero into our company will require, among other things, the retention and assimilation of its key management, sales and other personnel; the incorporation of and development of diversified workers’ compensation insurance products; the coordination of Majestic’s lines of insurance products and services; the adaptation of Majestic’s technology, information systems and other processes, including internal controls; and the retention and transition of its customers and agents. Unexpected difficulties in integrating Embarcadero could result in increased expenses and the diversion of substantial time, effort, attention and dedication of management resources and may distract our management in unpredictable ways from our existing business. The integration process could create a number of potential challenges and adverse consequences for us, including the possible unexpected loss of key employees, brokers and agents, a possible loss of sales or an increase in operating or other costs. These types of challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manage the combined operation effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisition of Embarcadero, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Although we have conducted what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding Embarcadero’s business and Majestic’s loss reserves, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of the business. Majestic has established loss reserves that represent an estimate of ultimate amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process are the average cost of claims over time, which is referred to as severity trends, including the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs, frequency risks, fluctuations in inflation, prevailing economic, social and judicial trends, legislative changes, third party claims handling procedures and costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process. Accordingly, Majestic’s loss reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses, and we could become responsible for these liabilities. We could also become responsible for other unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence during the acquisition. Under the stock purchase agreement, the selling stockholders of Embarcadero are required to indemnify us against certain undisclosed liabilities and an adverse loss reserve development, up to specified amounts. However, we cannot assure you that the indemnification, even if obtained, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities. Any of the liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our reinsurance business for a substantial portion of our revenues and profits and we could be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain or increase this business. The groups we manage purchase excess workers’ compensation coverage from U.S. admitted insurers to cover claims that exceed a minimum level established by state law or regulation or by administrative determination. We currently reinsure a portion of the excess workers’ compensation coverage purchased by 12 of our 14 groups. We derive a significant amount of our income from our reinsurance business. We anticipate that revenues from our reinsurance business could account for an increasing portion of our total revenues and net income. Upon their policy renewals on January 1, 2007, 6 of our 14 groups obtained excess and frequency coverage from Majestic. For these 6 groups, Twin Bridges reinsures a portion of the coverage provided by Majestic pursuant to a quota share reinsurance contract, also effective on January 1, 2007. Under this quota share reinsurance agreement, Twin Bridges reinsures 90% of the coverage that Majestic provides to the groups net of liabilities ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers and receives 90% of the premiums paid to Majestic by the groups net of premiums paid to unaffiliated reinsurers. Twin Bridges’ liabilities under the quota share reinsurance agreement, however, are capped at specific levels. Six of our groups have not yet renewed their excess and frequency coverage policies and continue to be covered by the excess and frequency coverage policies from NY Marine & General until their respective renewal dates. Under the December 2005 NY Marine & General Agreement, which was terminated as of January 1, 2007 for new business, Twin Bridges reinsures 70% of all of the coverage it provides under these policies and receives 70% of the premiums paid to NY Marine & General by the groups. If those 6 groups currently covered by NY Marine & General obtain policies from Majestic upon their renewal in either April, June or August of this year, we expect Twin Bridges to reinsure a portion of this coverage under the quota share reinsurance agreement. As a result of our new arrangement with Majestic and the termination of the December 2005 NY Marine & General Agreement, we expect that the portion of our revenues dependent upon the placement of excess coverage for our groups will increase. Unless we enter into reinsurance agreements with other third parties, Majestic will be the only source of business for Twin Bridges in the future. Majestic could lose or otherwise have its current licenses revoked, or could fail to obtain the required license in Texas. In addition, our groups may determine to obtain excess coverage insurance from other U.S. admitted insurers if such insurers offer a better rate or more favorable terms than those offered by us through Majestic. Further, these insurers may not offer us the opportunity to reinsure a portion of the excess coverage or may only do so in lower amounts or on terms and conditions that are less favorable or not acceptable to us. This may occur if these insurers are offered a better rate or more favorable terms from one of our competitors. We could lose all or a substantial portion of our reinsurance premium revenues which, for the year ended December 31, 2006 37 Table of Contents represented approximately 33% of our total revenues. In addition, in such event we would be unable to grow by providing excess coverage insurance directly to our groups, which is one of our strategies for growth. Any of the adverse developments described above would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not effectively price our insurance policies, our financial results will be adversely affected. Our insurance policy prices are established when coverage is initiated. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. Our prices for insurance coverage are based on estimates of expected losses generated from the policies which we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder’s prior loss history and industry, and the loss prevention orientation of the policyholder’s management. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder’s past claims experience puts us at risk of mispricing our policies. When initiating coverage on a policyholder, we rely on the claims information provided by the policyholder or previous carriers to properly estimate future claims expense. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may underprice our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the actions of state regulatory authorities have a material impact on the pricing of our policies. For example, in May 2006, the California Insurance Commissioner issued a decision adopting an advisory pure premium rate reduction of 16.4% for California workers’ compensation policies incepting on or after July 1, 2006. Pure premium is that portion of an insurance premium necessary to cover the cost of paying claims, such as medical and indemnity costs and allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expenses. Such actions of the California Insurance Commissioner are advisory only and insurance companies may choose whether or not to adopt the new rates. On May 19, 2006, Majestic filed new rates reflecting an average reduction of 15% from prior rates for new and renewal workers’ compensation insurance policies written in California on or after July 1, 2006. The filing was approved by the California Insurance Commissioner on May 26, 2006. On September 14, 2006, the Workers’ Compensation Insurance Rating Bureau of California, or “WCIRB,” an industry-backed private organization that provides statistical analysis, amended a previous filing with the California Insurance Commissioner to recommend an additional 6.3% decrease in advisory pure premium rates on new and renewal policies effective on or after January 1, 2007. The filing was based on a review of loss and loss adjustment experience through June 30, 2006 and was made in response to continued reductions in California workers’ compensation claim costs. On November 2, 2006, the California Insurance Commissioner recommended a 9.5% decrease in workers’ compensation advisory pure premium rates for policies commencing on or after January 1, 2007, which was subsequently approved by the California Department of Insurance. On November 21, 2006, Majestic filed for an 8.1% decrease effective January 1, 2007. This decrease was the eighth California rate reduction for Majestic since October 1, 2003, resulting in a net cumulative reduction of Majestic’s California rates of 48.5%. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would adversely affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In addition, our competitors may adopt premium rate reductions that are greater than ours. In any of these scenarios, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected by our failure to establish adequate loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. We establish and adjust reserves for Twin Bridges and Majestic as we recognize our liabilities for unpaid losses, which represent estimates of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not been reported. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Workers’ compensation claims are often paid over a long period of time. In addition, for traditional workers’ compensation coverage written by Majestic, there are no policy limits on liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other insurance. Estimating reserves for traditional or excess insurance or reinsurance of workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other lines of insurance or reinsurance with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the ultimate loss and with policy limits for claim amounts. Accordingly, there is a greater risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the risks associated with the businesses 38 Table of Contents that we insure and that our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Further, this risk is greater for reinsurance than for traditional or excess insurance of worker’s compensation claims because the period of time that generally elapses between the underwriting and pricing of our reinsurance of the excess coverage purchased by the groups we manage and the payment of a claim pursuant to such reinsurance is even longer than that for our groups and, as a result, our reserves are more difficult to estimate and are even less likely to be accurate. Loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process are the average cost of claims over time, which is referred to as severity trends, including the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs, frequency risks, fluctuations in inflation, prevailing economic, social and judicial trends, legislative changes, third party claims handling procedures and costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been, and will continue to be, necessary to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for both Twin Bridges and Majestic for claims and related expenses. Furthermore, Twin Bridges has only been in existence since December 2003, has had limited loss experience and a relatively small population of underlying risks, and therefore we rely heavily on industry data in establishing our loss reserves. Our own experience in this line of business could run materially higher than industry loss experience and therefore we are exposed to an increased likelihood that our actual results may not conform to our estimates. Our business strategy includes reinsuring an increased amount of the excess coverage provided for the groups we manage, including the insurance coverage provided by Majestic. In addition, in states other than California, Majestic has a shorter operating history. Consequently, we must rely on a combination of industry benchmarks, our limited experience in these states and our experience in California. Operational changes in claims handling practices over the years may impact the interpretation of this historical data, which can also be impacted by external forces such as legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. A key assumption in the estimation process for workers’ compensation reserves is severity trends, including the increasing costs of health care and the medical claims process. If there were unfavorable changes in severity trends, our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses might need to be increased, which would result in a charge to our earnings. To the extent our loss reserves for Twin Bridges or Majestic are insufficient to cover actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to adjust our loss reserves and may incur charges to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Twin Bridges is a reinsurer of Majestic. Consequently, we may be exposed to a greater share of certain losses. Under the December 2005 NY Marine & General Agreement, Twin Bridges reinsures 70% of all of the coverage NY Marine & General provides to our groups and receives 70% of the premiums paid to NY Marine & General by the groups. The December 2005 NY Marine & General Agreement was terminated as of January 1, 2007 with respect to new business and upon their policy renewals on January 1, 2007, 6 of our 14 groups obtained excess and frequency coverage from Majestic. Our reinsurance subsidiary, Twin Bridges, reinsures a portion of the excess and frequency coverage provided by Majestic to 6 of our 14 groups. Consequently, on a consolidated basis, we are providing 100% of the excess and frequency coverage obtained by these 6 groups net of liabilities ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers. In addition, if those 6 groups currently covered by NY Marine & General obtain policies from Majestic upon their renewal in April, June, or August of this year, we expect Twin Bridges to reinsure a portion of this coverage under the quota share reinsurance agreement. This increased overall exposure to losses from large and/or frequent loss occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiary could reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. In May 2005, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating of Majestic to “B++” 39 Table of Contents (Very Good). Following our acquisition of Embarcadero, however, A.M. Best upgraded Majestic’s financial strength rating to “A-” (Excellent). These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. Our ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. We believe that the ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor in marketing our products. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on these ratings. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, could cause our current and future independent agents, insureds, managed groups and their individual members to choose to transact their business with more highly rated competitors. If A.M. Best downgrades our ratings or publicly indicates that our ratings are under review, it is likely that we would not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and our ability to sell insurance policies could decline. If that happens, our sales and earnings would decrease. For example, some of our agencies and insureds have guidelines governing the financial strength rating of the company providing coverage. A reduction of our A.M. Best rating below “A-” would prevent us from issuing policies to our groups, insureds or potential insureds with such ratings requirements. Because lenders and reinsurers will also use our A.M. Best ratings as a factor in deciding whether to transact business with us, the failure of Majestic to maintain its current rating could dissuade a lender or reinsurance company from conducting business with us or might increase our interest or reinsurance costs. We may pursue opportunities to offer other insurance products to the members of our managed groups and others; any failure to manage the risks involved could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to explore the development and offering by Majestic of certain non-workers’ compensation property and casualty insurance products to carefully selected members of the groups we manage and to other entities that are not members of our groups. If we develop and offer these additional insurance products, Twin Bridges may reinsure a portion of the risk that is underwritten by Majestic. A number of risks are inherent in this strategy, including, among others: • greater loss exposure, especially if we fail to successfully manage or underwrite this new business; • the diversion of management’s attention; • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; • the need to hire additional marketing personnel, underwriters, claims personnel and other staff dedicated to the new lines of business; and • the need to obtain required licenses to issue non-workers’ compensation property and casualty products and additional regulatory approvals, if required by applicable laws. If we are unable to effectively manage these or other potential risks inherent in the marketing and sale of additional insurance products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain or collect on our reinsurance protection, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance coverage to help, in part, manage the risk assumed under the traditional workers’ compensation policies issued through Majestic. Reinsurance coverage helps to protect Majestic from the impact of large losses. It involves an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk by sharing premiums with another insurance company, called the reinsurer. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Majestic currently purchases excess of loss reinsurance. Under excess of loss reinsurance, the reinsurer reimburses the ceding company for losses and loss expenses over a specified dollar amount up to an agreed limit per occurrence. Majestic’s excess of loss coverage provides reinsurance for occurrences of loss that exceed $600,000 but are less than $50 million. Twin Bridges, on the other 40 Table of Contents hand, has traditionally acted only as a reinsurer. To date, Twin Bridges has not purchased any reinsurance for the risk that it assumes. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and our experience with insured losses and may vary significantly. As a result of catastrophic events, such as the events of September 11, 2001, we may incur significantly higher reinsurance costs, more restrictive terms and conditions, and decreased availability. We review and renegotiate our reinsurance protection each year. We cannot be certain, however, that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity would be reduced. These consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Majestic’s agreements for excess of loss reinsurance of traditional workers’ compensation coverage expire on June 30, 2007. Although we currently expect to renew the agreements upon their expiration, any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance at the time of renewal, whether caused by the existence of more restrictive terms and conditions or decreased availability, will also increase our risk of loss and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Majestic currently has 10 reinsurers participating in its excess of loss reinsurance program, and we believe that this is a sufficient number of reinsurers to provide Majestic with reinsurance in the volume that it requires. However, it is possible that one or more of Majestic’s current reinsurers could cancel participation, or Majestic could find it necessary to cancel the participation of one of the reinsurers, in the excess of loss reinsurance treaty program. In either of those events, if Majestic’s reinsurance broker is unable to spread the cancelled or terminated reinsurance among the remaining reinsurers in the program, Majestic estimates that it could take approximately one to three weeks to identify and negotiate appropriate documentation with a replacement reinsurer. During this time, Majestic would be exposed to an increased risk of loss, the extent of which would depend on the volume of cancelled reinsurance. In addition, we are subject to credit risk with respect to Majestic’s reinsurers. Reinsurance protection that Majestic receives does not discharge our direct obligations under the policies Majestic writes. We remain liable to Majestic’s policyholders, even if we are unable to make recoveries to which we believe we are entitled under Majestic’s reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from the reinsurers until claims are paid, and, in the case of long-term workers’ compensation cases, the creditworthiness of the reinsurers may change and we may not recover amounts to which we are entitled. If we experience these problems in the future, our charges to income would increase and our revenues would decline. As of December 31, 2006, Majestic had $30.8 million of amounts recoverable from its reinsurers that we would be obligated to pay if the reinsurers failed to pay Majestic. These consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we and our groups offer workers’ compensation insurance and reinsurance only, negative developments in this industry would adversely affect our business. Our insurance subsidiary, Majestic, currently offers only traditional workers’ compensation insurance and excess workers’ compensation reinsurance coverage, our groups solely offer workers’ compensation insurance and Twin Bridges offers only workers’ compensation reinsurance. As a result of this concentration, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant decrease in pricing of the policies we and our groups offer due to increased competition or regulatory action, adverse court decisions interpreting states’ workers’ compensation laws and newly enacted legislation could adversely affect our profitability and negatively impact our business. For information concerning proposed legislation in New York workers’ compensation legislation, see. “Risk Factors — The laws and regulations applicable to workers’ compensation are undergoing review and are subject to change in New York, California and Tekas, and we may be adversely affected by any changes in those laws or regulations. Should our competitors and/or our groups’ competitors offer products at prices lower than we believe would be profitable, we and/or our groups may be unable to compete at those lower prices and our premium levels and our groups’ premium levels could be reduced which would reduce our management fee revenues. Many of such competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers’ compensation insurance at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. In contrast, our groups cannot offer workers’ compensation insurance at premium levels which would cause them to fall below actuarially adequate reserve thresholds. Further, since we only offer workers’ compensation insurance, any reduction in the premium levels we charge below actuarially adequate reserve 41 Table of Contents thresholds would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance business. Twin Bridges is subject to extensive regulation in Bermuda that may adversely affect its ability to achieve its business objectives. If Twin Bridges fails to comply with these regulations, it may be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions and withdrawal of its insurance license. Twin Bridges is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Among other matters, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority require Twin Bridges to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, statutory capital and surplus, and liquidity, to meet solvency standards, to obtain prior approval of certain issuances and transfers of shares as well as to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict Twin Bridges’ ability to assume reinsurance, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. We cannot predict whether any change to these regulations will materially and adversely affect our business. If Twin Bridges fails to comply with any of the above mentioned statutes and regulations, the Bermuda Monetary Authority may, among other things, direct Twin Bridges: • not to take on any new insurance business; • not to vary any insurance contract if the effect would be to increase the insurer’s liabilities; • not to make certain investments; • to realize certain investments; • to maintain in, or transfer to the custody of, a specified bank, certain assets; • not to declare or pay any dividends or other distributions or to restrict the making of such payments; and/or • to limit its premium income. The approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority is required for all transfers of shares in Bermuda companies prior to the completion of the transfer. The Bermuda Monetary Authority, however, in its policy dated June 1, 2005, provides that where any equity securities, including our common shares, of a Bermuda company are listed on an appointed stock exchange, general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a company from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equities securities of such company remain so listed. The Nasdaq Global Select Market is deemed to be an appointed stock exchange under Bermuda law. Notwithstanding the above general permission, the Bermuda Monetary Authority has granted CRM Holdings permission, subject to the common shares in CRM Holdings being listed on an appointed stock exchange, to issue, grant, create, sell and transfer any of CRM Holdings’ shares to and among persons who are either resident or non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, whether or not such securities are listed on an appointed stock exchange. Majestic is subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject Majestic to regulatory action. Majestic is subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements the level and fulfillment of which are specified by the laws of California and each state in which it issues policies. Any failure by Majestic to meet minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by applicable state law will subject it to corrective action, which may include requiring adoption of a comprehensive financial plan, revocation of its license to sell insurance products or placing Majestic under state regulatory control. Any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our insurance company subsidiaries, which we may not be able to do. 42 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Fee-Based Business We are dependent upon a number of our larger managed groups, and any failure to retain our management agreements with these groups would adversely impact our business. A significant amount of our existing business is dependent on a relatively small number of our managed groups. Our four largest groups, HITNY, Elite Contractors Trust of New York, Contractors Access Program of California and Transportation Industry Workers’ Compensation Trust of New York, provided approximately 23%,19%,17% and 13%,of our revenues from fee-based management services for the year ended December 31, 2006. The loss of one or more of these groups would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Two of our groups, including HITNY, our largest group, are significantly underfunded. We believe that as of the date of this annual report, adverse claims development has caused HITNY’s estimated ratio of regulatory assets to total liabilities to decrease significantly. As a result of HITNY’s underfunded status, HITNY’s Board of Trustees has determined that the group will not accept any new members until the underfunding has been substantially corrected. We are presently in discussions with HITNY’s Board of Trustees and the New York Workers’ Compensation Board to develop a remediation plan to resolve HITNY’s funding status. Discussions regarding the plan are ongoing, and we hope to have a plan finalized by April 1, 2007, which is HITNY’s program renewal date. If adopted, we expect that the remediation plan will incorporate a reduction in management fees paid by HITNY and lower excess insurance cost when the existing coverage through NY Marine and General expires and is likely replaced with coverage through Majestic. The remediation plan may also include HITNY purchasing additional coverage for prior year’s losses. Although negotiations are on-going, we are optimistic that a remediation plan can be agreed to by all parties and approved by the New York Workers’ Compensation Board. We cannot, however, say with any certainly that the proposed plan will be approved by the parties and what the ultimate terms of the plan will be. Connected with HITNY’s adverse claims development, the New York Workers’ Compensation Board is conducting an inquiry into the actuarial work done by a third-party actuary. We have provided testimony and copies of the underlying data that was submitted to the actuary to the New York Workers’ Compensation Board. The New York Workers’ Compensation Board has also received testimony from the third-party actuary. We also understand that the actuary provided the New York Workers’ Compensation Board with a written independent report from another qualified independent actuary that specializes in performing such reviews. This report verified that all actuarial methods used and actuarial judgments made were in accordance with sound actuarial principles and standards. Although we expect that the materials and testimony that we provided to the New York Workers’ Compensation Board will substantiate all underlying data, we cannot predict the outcome of the New York Workers’ Compensation Board’s inquiry. We have also recently determined that adverse claims development has similarly caused the estimated ratio of regulatory assets to total liabilities to decrease significantly for another of our groups. This group accounted for approximately 6% of our fee-based revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although the group has not been deemed underfunded at this point, we expect that the New York Workers’ Compensation Board will make such a determination following its review of the group’s financial statements. Accordingly, at its most recent meeting, we presented a remediation plan to the group’s board of trustees, who preliminarily approved it. We expect to work with the group and the New York Workers’ Compensation Board to finalize this remediation plan to resolve the group’s funding status, but are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the discussions or the proposed plan. The New York Workers Compensation Board has the regulatory authority to require underfunded groups to increase the premiums their members pay to such groups, cause their members to pay an additional assessment for the coverage provided by such groups during prior years, review all expenses of the group, including the management fees paid by such groups, request substantial reductions in such expenses and, in extreme circumstances, order the group to disband. In the past, we have been able to assist our underfunded groups, including HITNY, to develop and implement successful remediation plans and restore such groups to funded status. However, we cannot assure you that either of the groups will be able to remediate their funding status successfully and in such an event, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our reputation with respect to the provision of management services to self-insured workers compensation groups, could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, either of the groups may assert a claim against us, which we would vigorously defend; if any such claim results in payments to the groups or a reduction in the management fees the groups pay to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents We may be deemed to have a conflict of interest in concurrently managing groups and placing excess coverage for these groups with Majestic or another U.S. admitted insurer that cedes a part of this excess coverage to Twin Bridges. We currently act as a reinsurance broker for the groups we manage which will allow us to place reinsurance for our groups with Majestic in addition to other U.S. admitted insurers, while also reinsuring a portion of the excess coverage ceded from such reinsurers to Twin Bridges. It is possible that one or more of our groups could conclude that our acting as manager of the groups and as reinsurance broker for our groups, while also reinsuring a portion of the excess coverage, presents an unacceptable conflict of interest. If this should occur, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our reinsurance business or our brokerage business, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prevent us from successfully implementing our growth strategy of providing excess coverage to the groups we manage in California and New York through Majestic. For example, a group of commonly owned former members of our largest managed group, HITNY, filed suit against CRM and HITNY on December 30, 2004 alleging, among other things, that CRM had engaged in self dealing and had committed a breach of fiduciary duty owed to them in connection with the placement of reinsurance for the members of the group. This suit was settled in April 2006. As a result of this settlement, we agreed to retroactively reduce the management fees which HITNY was required to pay to us for the period that began in April 2006 and ended in December 2006, resulting in a reduction of our management fees in the aggregate amount of $162,500. Due to the joint and several liability of New York and California self-insured groups, the failure of any self-insured group in the state of New York or California could adversely affect our group management business. Each member of a self-insured group has joint and several liability for the obligations of the group incurred during the period of its membership and that group may assess the members for any short-fall, even after a member leaves a group, if the loss was incurred during such member’s participation in the group. If a group is not able to pay its liabilities from its assets or these assessments, the New York State Workers’ Compensation Board may use the security posted by the group and can also assess all of the other groups in New York State to pay these liabilities. In California, each member of a self-insured group must participate as a member in the Self-Insurers’ Security Fund established by state law. Such fund may assess each of its members a pro rata share of the funding necessary as a result of the failure of a private self-insured employer or self-insured group to meet its compensation obligations when the employer’s or group’s security deposit is either inadequate or not immediately accessible for the payment of benefits. The failure of a single large self-insured group in New York or California, even if it is a group that we do not manage, could have an adverse effect on the other groups in the state and could affect the regulation of groups by the state. Any such developments may seriously hamper our ability to retain existing members, attract new members to our managed groups and form new groups, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. Our groups are dependent on obtaining excess coverage for the workers’ compensation coverage they provide to their members and the loss of excess coverage would adversely affect our business. Our groups are required to purchase excess coverage from U.S. admitted insurers under state law or regulation or by administrative determination and thus are dependent on the availability of this coverage to carry on their business. The availability and cost of excess coverage for the groups are subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. Our managed groups are dependent on insurers who underwrite excess coverage and may be unable to provide workers’ compensation coverage to their members if, in future periods, excess coverage becomes unavailable or only available on unacceptable terms and conditions or includes material sub-limits or exclusions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain adequate levels of excess coverage for the groups with U.S. admitted insurers at cost-effective rates. In such an event, our managed groups may be unable to retain existing members or attract new members, and we may not be able to form new groups, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we underestimate the liabilities incurred by the groups we manage, our business could be adversely affected. Significant periods of time generally elapse between the underwriting and pricing of workers’ compensation insurance coverage and the payment of claims by our managed groups. As the groups recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, the groups establish or adjust reserves, which represent estimates of amounts the groups will need to pay with regard to their reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expenses. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial 44 Table of Contents estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process are the average cost of claims over time, which is referred to as severity trends, including the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs, frequency risks, fluctuations in inflation, prevailing economic, social and judicial trends, legislative changes, third party claims handling procedures and costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process. To the extent the loss reserves for any of our managed groups is insufficient to cover such group’s actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, the group will have to adjust its loss reserves and it may incur charges to its earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and cash flows and could require the group to assess its members. This could expose us to liability for our management of the group, have a negative impact on our future management of the group, and adversely affect our reputation as a manager. We operate as a third party administrator, or TPA, for our groups in New York to manage their claims and providing such services requires a license from the New York Workers’ Compensation Board. Our failure to maintain a TPA license could adversely affect our business. Part of the services we provide our groups in New York includes acting as the group’s TPA. This requires us to be responsible for the administration and defense of the claims of the groups’ members. We provide TPA services as part of the management fees we receive from our groups. Operating as a TPA requires us to maintain a license issued by the New York Workers’ Compensation Board, which has broad discretion to deny or revoke TPA licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. If we do not have the requisite TPA license and approval from the New York Workers’ Compensation Board or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the New York Workers’ Compensation Board could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. If we fail to maintain our TPA license or to continue offering claims management services to our groups in New York, our ability to maintain and grow our fee-based management services business could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, if the New York Workers’ Compensation Board decided to suspend or revoke our TPA license, it is also possible that New York Workers’ Compensation Board could place restrictions on our ability to perform other group administrator services for our New York groups. If the New York Workers’ Compensation Board were to place such restrictions our ability to offer group administrator services to our New York groups, our ability to maintain and grow our fee-based management services business could be materially and adversely affected. Our groups in California employ third party administrators, or TPAs, to manage claims, and the failure to maintain these services could adversely affect our business. Under California law, we are not permitted to manage the claims of the groups we manage in California. Therefore, our groups in California contract with independent TPAs to perform this task. As manager of the groups, we retain claims settlement authority and establish loss reserves and review the work performed by the TPAs on a regular basis. If the TPAs fail to manage the claims of our California groups effectively, such failure may adversely affect the operation of these groups and, consequently, may adversely affect our ability to retain members or attract new members. Four of our California groups are currently managed by a single TPA, Matrix Absence Management, Inc., or Matrix, a subsidiary of Delphi Financial Group, Inc. A fifth group in California has retained Tristar Risk Management, or Tristar, to perform these services. If Matrix or Tristar were to fail to continue offering administrative services on competitive terms to these groups in California, our ability to maintain and grow our fee-based management services business in California could be materially and adversely affected. We are developing a program to offer fee-based services to third-party entities with which we have no pre-existing relationships. We could fail to successfully market and provide these services to third parties. Part of our business strategy includes offering our medical bill review and case management services to large, self-insured entities and insurance companies, self-insured groups and other third-party entities with which we have no pre-existing relationships and which require these services. Since December 31, 2005, we added seven new clients and plan to identify and negotiate arrangements with other prospects. We intend to expand our marketing of these services within the next year, as we have recently hired a senior vice president of sales and product development. We will need to develop new relationships with these parties and we will incur expenses in marketing the services. If we are unable to develop new relationships and successfully market these services, we will not be able to implement this part of our business strategy. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our fee-based management services business may expose us to liability in excess of our current insurance coverage. The management of our groups exposes us to significant risks. We may have liability for errors or omissions in the services we perform. We may also be liable to our groups, third parties and governmental authorities for, among other things, fines, penalties and regulatory actions. These liabilities may exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. The cost of obtaining errors and omissions, general liability and professional liability insurance is rising. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover the liabilities we may incur or that we will be able to maintain insurance at reasonable rates or at all. If our policies are terminated and do not contain retroactive coverage, we will not be insured for claims made after the termination of coverage even if these claims are based on events or acts that occurred during the term of the policy. In such an event, we could be exposed to liability which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents Our revenues may decrease if our insured groups obtain reduced rates under their management agreements with us. On April 1, 2005, we agreed to a modification of our management agreement with HITNY which reduces the amount of revenue we derive from our management of HITNY. The agreement provides that it is retroactively effective as of October 1, 2004. Further, as part of a settlement of claims by a group of commonly owned former members of HITNY, we agreed to a reduction of our management fees charged to HITNY during the period beginning April 2006 and ending November 2006. HITNY was and continues to be our largest group and accounted for approximately 23% of our revenues from fee-based management services for the year ended December 31, 2006. In the event that another group grows sufficiently and seeks or otherwise requests a rate reduction which we are compelled to accept, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Generally Applicable to our Business The laws and regulations applicable to workers’ compensation are undergoing review and are subject to change in New York, California and Texas, and we may be adversely affected by any changes in those laws or regulations. We and the groups we manage are subject to laws and regulations in New York, California and Texas governing workers’ compensation. In New York, the workers’ compensation laws are in the process of being reformed. Significant legislative reforms were passed by both houses of the New York Legislature on March 6, 2007, and are currently awaiting the Governor’s review and approval. These reforms include, among others, increases in the amount of benefits received by the worker, limits on the length of payments for permanent partial disability injuries, an estimated reduction in premiums charge to employers, a reduction in the assessments charged to employers, and an increase in safety and return to work programs. Given their preliminary nature, we have not yet performed a qualitative or quantitative analysis of the legislative reforms. These reforms, could, however, materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives, both in our fee-based and primary insurance segments, and could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Further, the regulations for self-insured groups in both New York and California are undergoing review and are therefore subject to change. Much of the potential revisions in these regulations remain in the preliminary stages and have not yet been submitted for comment; however we cannot assure you that we are aware of all potential revisions that may be considered by the regulators. Nonetheless, the New York State Workers’ Compensation Board has expressed concern about rating the solvency of self-insured groups and may, in the future, institute a new system of grading self-insured groups in New York. The New York State Workers’ Compensation Board has also expressed concern over the need to ensure homogeneity among members of new self-insured groups and may, in the future, promulgate regulations to ensure that the members of all newly formed self-insured groups are insuring the same type of risks. In addition, the California Department of Insurance has proposed new regulations concerning brokers. If adopted as currently written, the regulations would apply to all lines of insurance and all brokers and general agents and would require brokers to disclose to clients the receipt or potential receipt of any income from a third party if that income derives from the broker’s transaction with the client. Under the proposed regulations, among other provisions, a misrepresentation or unfair act occurs if the broker does not advise a client whether the broker will seek a quote from one or more carriers. Also, the broker is subject to additional disclosure obligations if the broker makes a recommendation regarding such quotes. We may be subject to these regulations with respect to the brokerage services we provide to our groups. We cannot predict the adoption or effect of any future regulations in New York, California or Texas. Any regulations that are promulgated may subject us to additional compliance requirements and may materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives and could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We and our groups are exposed to the credit risk of the reinsurers who provide excess coverage. The groups we manage are and will continue to be exposed to the credit risk of the insurers that provide excess coverage. Placing excess coverage with these insurers does not and will not relieve the members of our managed groups from liability. Furthermore, if these insurers fail to maintain satisfactory ratings from relevant rating agencies, they may not be eligible to provide the excess coverage. Any failure of these insurers to pay covered losses in a timely manner or to maintain the required ratings could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 46 Table of Contents Much like the groups that we manage through our fee-based business, our insurance subsidiary, Majestic, purchases excess workers’ compensation coverage from reinsurers to cover claims that exceed certain minimum levels. Consequently, we are subject to credit risk with respect to those reinsurers. Although we purchase reinsurance to manage our risk and exposure to losses, we continue to have direct obligations under the policies we write. We remain liable to our policyholders, even if we are unable to recover what we believe we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. Reinsurers might refuse or fail to pay losses that we cede to them, or they might delay payment. In the case of long-term workers’ compensation cases, the creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we can recover amounts to which we are entitled. Recent natural disasters, such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, have caused unprecedented insured property losses, a significant portion of which will be borne by reinsurers. If one of our reinsurers is active in markets other than the workers’ compensation insurance market, its ability to perform its obligations in the latter market may be adversely affected by events unrelated to workers’ compensation insurance losses. At December 31, 2006, Majestic carried a total of $30.7 million of reinsurance receivables for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and ceding commissions, representing 73% of Majestic’s total stockholders’ equity as of that date. If all reinsurance receivables became uncollectible, our surplus would decline by this amount, and we would not be in compliance with the applicable statutory capital and surplus requirements at our current level of premiums written. If we fall below risk-based capital solvency standards prescribed by the California Department of Insurance, the California Department of Insurance would have the statutory authority to place us into receivership, to suspend Majestic’s certificates of authority or to set limits on our maximum annual gross or net premiums written in all states. Of the $1.4 million in reinsurance receivables as of December 31, 2006, $37.6 million is currently recoverable on paid losses and $36.2 million is recoverable on unpaid losses and therefore is not currently due. The reinsurance receivables with respect to unpaid losses will become current as we pay the related claims. As of December 31, 2006, Majestic’s largest receivable from a single reinsurer was $21.2 million owed by its quota share reinsurer, Hannover Ruckversicherungs AG, representing 41.1% of Majestic’s total stockholders’ equity as of that date. Of that amount, $1.0 million was currently receivable with respect to paid losses. The balance related to losses that may be paid in the future and therefore is not currently due. If any of our reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay amounts they owe us in a timely fashion, we could suffer a significant loss or a shortage of liquidity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions in New York and California and any changes in those conditions could adversely affect our business. Our self-insured groups are primarily located in New York and California. Unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in either of those two states could negatively impact our business, and, consequently, we are exposed to economic and regulatory risks that are greater than the risks faced by insurance companies that conduct business over a greater geographic area. Furthermore, the California group self-insurance market is still developing and remains volatile. Majestic’s insurance business is primarily located in California. In the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 92% of Majestic’s revenues were attributable to insurance policies written in California. Our revenues and profitability are subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, industrial and other conditions in New York and California. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in these states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies which are more geographically diversified. For example, in May 2006, the California Insurance Commissioner issued a decision adopting an advisory pure premium rate reduction of 16.4% for California workers’ compensation policies incepting on or after July 1, 2006. Pure premium is that portion of an insurance premium necessary to cover the cost of paying claims, such as medical and indemnity costs and allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expenses. Such actions of the California Insurance Commissioner are advisory only and insurance companies may choose whether or not to adopt the new rates. On May 19, 2006, Majestic filed new rates reflecting an average reduction of 15% from prior rates for new and renewal workers’ compensation insurance policies written in California on or after July 1, 2006. In addition, on September 14, 2006, the WCIRB amended a previous filing with the California Insurance Commissioner to recommend an additional 6.3% decrease in advisory pure premium rates on new and renewal policies effective on or after January 1, 2007. On November 2, 2006, the California Insurance Commissioner recommended a 9.5% decrease in workers’ compensation advisory pure premium rates for policies commencing on 47 Table of Contents or after January 1, 2007. On November 21, 2006, Majestic filed for an 8.1% decrease effective January 1, 2007 which was subsequently approved by the California Department of Insurance. This decrease was the eighth California rate reduction for Majestic since October 1, 2003, resulting in a net cumulative reduction of Majestic’s California rates of 48.5%. If the California Insurance Commissioner continues to adopt reductions to the advisory pure premium rate and we or our California groups are unable to match the premium rate reductions adopted by our competitors or our California groups’ competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, because our business is concentrated in this manner, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in New York or California could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Our business is heavily dependent upon independent general agents and brokers with whom we do not have exclusive relationships and the loss of any of these important relationships would adversely affect our business. All of the members of the groups we manage are introduced by general agents and brokers, and these groups derive a significant portion of their members from a limited number of these general agents and brokers. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 76% of the aggregate annualized premiums paid or attributable to the groups we manage was derived from members referred to our groups by approximately 20% of our general agents and brokers. Majestic also markets and sells its insurance products solely through independent, non-exclusive insurance agencies. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 46% of Majestic’s premium in-force was derived from customers referred to Majestic by approximately 10% of Majestic’s general agents and brokers. We do not have an exclusive relationship with these general agents and brokers. They are not obligated to promote our groups or insurance products and may sell products offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors have longer relationships with the general agents and brokers that we use or intend to use. Further, we and the groups we manage must offer workers’ compensation insurance products that meet the requirements of these agencies and their customers and provide competitive compensation to these agencies. We cannot assure you that we will successfully maintain these relationships, cultivate new ones or be able to meet the future requirements of these general agents and brokers. In addition, consolidation in the general agency and insurance brokerage industry may lead to the loss of one or more of these relationships. The failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with general agents and brokers from whom we obtain or expect to obtain our business or to develop new relationships would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and the groups we manage face intense competition from a large number of companies in the workers’ compensation insurance business and in the reinsurance business and we may be unable to compete effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our businesses. The workers’ compensation insurance market, which is our primary source of revenue, is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, has very few barriers to entry. We and the groups we manage compete with many companies in the workers’ compensation insurance business. These competitors include, among others: • the state funds in New York, California and Texas; • specialty, regional and major insurers in New York, California and Texas, such as American International Group, Inc., Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, Zurich Financial Services, Utica National Insurance Group, Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company, Travelers Insurance Group Holdings Inc., Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Hartford Financial Services Group Inc, Employers Direct Insurance Company, Redwood Fire & Casualty Insurance Co., Republic Companies Group, Inc., Redlands Insurance Co., St. Paul Travelers, Zenith National Insurance Corp, National Liability and Fire Insurance Company, Preferred Employers, SeaBright Insurance Company, CompWest Insurance Company, Employers Compensation Insurance Company of California, Everest Insurance Company, ICW Group; and 48 Table of Contents • groups managed by other group administrators, such as First Cardinal Corporation, and New York Compensation Managers, Inc. in New York and Bickmore Risk Services in California. Many of the insurance companies listed above have more capital, name and brand recognition and marketing and management resources than we or the groups we manage have. Many of our competitors have offered, and may continue to offer, workers’ compensation insurance combined with other insurance coverage. Some of our competitors offer workers’ compensation insurance on a multi-state basis. Competition in our industry is very intense and from time to time results in a significant reduction in premiums for workers’ compensation insurance, and we may be competitively disadvantaged because key group members may be obliged or inclined to purchase packaged products or multi-state workers’ compensation coverage from our competitors in order to receive favorable rates for other types of liability coverage or because our competitors offer superior premium rates or policy terms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy in a manner that will allow us to be competitive. Increased competition could reduce the ability of our groups to attract new members and retain existing members and would adversely impact the groups we manage and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected as a result. We and the groups we manage are subject to extensive regulation in the United States that may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we and our groups do not comply with these regulations, we and they may be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions, withdrawals of licenses and restrictions on the growth of our groups. We and the groups we manage are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders or members of the groups, rather than shareholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance or the workers’ compensation or similar board in each jurisdiction in which we do business, relate to, among other things: • approval of premium, contribution and funding rates; • ratios of assets to liabilities, credit and risk reserves, net worth levels and standards of solvency; • formation of groups and licensing as a third-party claims administrator in New York; • limits on the size and nature of risks assumed and retained, including requiring the purchase of excess coverage for loss above levels established by the applicable state regulatory agency; • mandatory guidelines for the investment of funds; • reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes; • periodic audits and other regulatory reviews of the financial statements of the groups, Majestic and Twin Bridges; • deposits for the benefit of the Chairman of the New York State Workers’ Compensation Board or Director of Industrial Relations of the State of California; • annual reporting and disclosure agreements; • limitations on our ability to transact business with our affiliates; • regulation of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving Majestic; • compliance by Majestic with various licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; 49 Table of Contents • approval or rejection of Majestic’s policy coverage and endorsements; • limitations on our investments and dividends; • assessment requirements for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and • compliance with medical privacy laws. Insurance departments and state workers’ compensation or similar boards also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of the insurance companies and groups they regulate and require the filing of periodic, annual and other reports relating to financial condition, approval of new members, groups and other matters. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, which is an organization of insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the four U.S. territories, and the state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and proposals for new laws. Such laws, regulations or interpretations by NAIC or state insurance regulators may be more restrictive or result in higher costs to us and the groups we manage. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses or suspend underwriting of business for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We intend to base some of our practices on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally accepted by the insurance industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we, or the groups we manage, do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us or the groups we manage from carrying on some or all of our or their activities, including placing restrictions on how many new members may be admitted to a group each year or on the amount of growth in premiums a group may experience, or otherwise impose penalties. In such an event, our reputation as well as our ability to operate our business would be materially and adversely affected. From time to time, one or more of our groups have been subject to certain operating restrictions, none of which has materially impacted our operations to date. In addition, workers’ compensation insurance is statutorily provided for in all of the states in which we do business. State laws and regulations provide for the form and content of policy coverage and the rights and benefits that are available to injured workers, their representatives and medical providers. For example, in California, on January 1, 2003, workers’ compensation legislation became effective that provided for increases in the benefits payable to injured workers. Also, in California, workers’ compensation legislation intended to reduce certain costs was enacted in September 2003 and April 2004. Among other things, this legislation established an independent medical review process for resolving medical disputes, tightened standards for determining impairment ratings by applying specific medical treatment guidelines, capped temporary total disability payments to 104 weeks from first payment and enabled injured workers to access immediate medical care up to $10,000 but required them to get medical care through a network of doctors chosen by the employer. The implementation of these reforms affects the manner in which we coordinate medical care costs with employers and the manner in which we oversee treatment plans. However, the reforms are subject to continuing opposition in the California legislature, in the courts and by ballot initiatives, any of which could overturn or substantially amend the reforms and regulatory rules applicable to the legislation. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of the reforms. Our ability to transact business with our affiliates and to enter into mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving Majestic is limited by the requirements of the insurance holding company laws in California. To comply with these laws, we are required to file notices with the California Department of Insurance to seek its approval at least thirty days before engaging in any intercompany transactions, such as sales, purchases, exchanges of assets, loans, extensions of credit, cost sharing arrangements and extraordinary dividends or other distributions to shareholders. Under these holding company laws, any change of control transaction also requires prior notification and approval. Because these governmental agencies may not take action or give approval within the thirty day period, these notification and approval requirements may subject us to business delays and additional business expense. If we fail to give these notifications, we may be subject to significant fines and penalties and damaged working relations with these governmental agencies. 50 Table of Contents Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance or reinsurance industry or changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations by regulatory authorities could materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our groups or operate our business. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory markets have long been the subject of scrutiny by federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies. This scrutiny has led to a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives designed to make it more difficult for offshore companies to transact business with U.S. persons. If Twin Bridges were to become subject to any United States federal or state law or regulation, Twin Bridges may be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus and may be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Compliance with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our managed groups in California and Texas and our reinsurance business have limited operating histories, and it may be difficult to predict their future performance. We began our reinsurance operations in December 2003 by reinsuring a portion of the excess workers’ compensation coverage NY Marine & General provides to groups we manage. We started providing management services to our first workers’ compensation group in California in October 2003 and in Texas in December 2006. We are still developing name recognition and a reputation in California and Texas, and, as a result, there may be limited historical information available to help evaluate our track record. In addition, to continue the growth of these areas, we expect to hire and retain additional key employees and other staff, develop and maintain business relations, continue to establish operating procedures, acquire or lease additional facilities, implement new systems, obtain approvals from regulatory agencies or organizations to form new groups and complete other similar tasks necessary for the conduct of our reinsurance and group management business in California and Texas. These expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. As we expand our group management business, we intend to reinsure additional excess coverage which may require us to have additional capital. Further, if we offer new insurance products or offer workers’ compensation insurance in additional states, we may need additional capital. The amount and timing of these capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to grow our group management business and Majestic’s insurance business, to successfully reinsure the excess coverage required by our groups and our ability to offer new insurance products. At this time, we are not able to estimate the amount of additional capital we may require in the future or predict the timing of our future capital needs. Any additional equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, your interest in us would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common shares. If we raise capital through the issuance of debt, the incurrence and repayment of any debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key executives, and may not be able to hire and retain additional key employees or successfully integrate new members of our management team and the loss of a key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend largely on our continued reliance on the experience and expertise of our senior management, which includes, among others, Daniel G. Hickey, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer, who has more than 15 years of insurance industry experience. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Hickey and other members of our senior management team, any of our senior managers may terminate his employment with us and seek employment with others who may seek his expertise. The loss of Mr. Hickey’s expertise or the expertise of any of our senior management through death, disability or termination of employment would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the beneficiary of life or disability insurance covering any of our executives, key employees or other personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our success in recruiting, retaining and successfully integrating our management team and other personnel. If we are unable to retain employees and to attract and integrate new members of our management team, key employees or other personnel, we may be unable to 51 Table of Contents successfully implement our business strategy in a timely manner. If we are unable to do so or if we were to lose the services of our senior executives or key employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of our invested assets will be subject to changes in interest rates and market volatility which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For periods prior to March, 2006 we invested the premiums we received from our reinsurance in short-term U.S. Treasury bills, cash and money market equivalents. In March, 2006 our board of directors established a Financial and Investment Committee that adopted investment policies for our reinsurance premiums. Majestic has also established investment policies for the insurance premiums it receives. Management will implement these investment policies with the assistance of independent investment managers. We expect that our investment portfolio for both entities will include a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under our insurance and reinsurance policies, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may increase at any time. Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. Conversely, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. For example, an increase of one percent in the current market interest rates would change the fair value of our fixed-income securities by approximately $3.5 million as of December 31, 2006. The calculated change in fair value was determined using duration modeling assuming no prepayments. Our investment results may also be adversely affected by changes in the business, financial condition, credit worthiness or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in government monetary policies, general economic and overall market conditions. Furthermore, general economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. For this or any of the other reasons discussed above, investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which will adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Any of these events or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the amount of each claim to rise in the future. Our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling costs, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs, we would be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory, tax and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends, make other payments and redeploy capital among our subsidiaries. CRM Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no substantial operations. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet our ongoing cash requirements and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends out of retained earnings, and the making of distributions out of contributed surplus, by Twin Bridges unless certain regulatory requirements are met. In addition, insurance regulations in California restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions by 52 Table of Contents Majestic. The inability of Twin Bridges and/or Majestic to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. U.S. withholding tax payable on dividends paid to CRM Holdings by our U.S. subsidiaries affects our ability to pay dividends and redeploy capital. Any dividends paid from our U.S. subsidiaries to us would be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 30%. We therefore do not expect to receive dividends from our U.S. subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. This will also restrict our ability to redeploy capital from our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda operations. If Twin Bridges requires capital because of unanticipated losses or for other reasons, and we are unable to provide the required capital from the profits and cash flow of our U.S. operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of our growth strategies is subject to numerous risks and difficulties. Key elements of our growth strategies include continued growth and expansion of our fee-based business, growth in our reinsurance business, provision of traditional workers’ compensation insurance through independent insurance brokers and agents directly to insureds and expansion of our fee based and traditional workers’ compensation insurance businesses geographically. Our implementation of these strategies is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agents; • properly design and price new and existing products and programs; • identify profitable new geographic markets and product lines to enter; • obtain necessary licenses and regulatory approvals; • as necessary, consider and identify further acquisition candidates and successfully execute and integrate acquisitions we undertake; and • identify, hire and train new underwriting and claims handling employees. We may encounter other difficulties in the implementation of our growth strategies, including unanticipated expenditures and damaged or lost relationships with customers and independent agents. In addition, our growth strategies include entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. For example, we formed a new self insured group in Texas on December 1, 2006. In addition to this group, we are exploring and intend to form other self-insured groups in Texas. Since our existing personnel have limited experience managing groups and writing workers’ compensation insurance in Texas, we cannot predict how this new business will impact our profitability. Any such difficulties could result in excessive diversion of senior management time and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, future growth of our primary insurance operations depends, in part, on our ability to expand our underwriting operations in jurisdictions in which Majestic is already licensed, but has limited operations, and to enter into new jurisdictions. Any effort to expand our operations in a state in which we do not currently have a strong presence will require significant marketing efforts in order to penetrate the new market. Expansion into additional jurisdictions would also require significant attention from members of our existing management team. Attention to operations in new jurisdictions could distract members of our management team and negatively impact our business. Further, if we pursue further acquisitions, they may require significant capital outlays. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to pay for an acquisition, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common shareholders or the issuance may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Once an acquisition is made, we could suffer increased costs, disruption of our business and distraction of our management while we integrate the acquired business into our operations. Any failure by us to manage our growth and to respond 53 Table of Contents to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of a Permanent Resident’s Certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees in Bermuda if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have obtained non-resident work permits for our Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. If we are unable to renew the work permits for our officers or to obtain work permits for any new employees we intend to hire, we may not be able to conduct our business operations fully or efficiently and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which could limit our ability to increase revenues and cash flow. As we have expanded our fee-based management services business into California, began reinsuring a portion of the excess coverage obtained by the groups that we manage and acquired Embarcadero and its wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, Majestic, we have experienced significant growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees. We expect this growth to continue as we grow our California fee-based management services business, integrate the operations of Majestic and hire additional administrative staff to assist us with meeting the increased compliance obligations of being a publicly-traded company. In addition, part of our strategy includes growth of our medical bill review and case management services. This growth has and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our financial and operational resources. Continued growth will likely increase our challenges in: • hiring, retaining and training of new employees; • integrating the operations of Majestic; • managing a large organization; • implementing appropriate operating and financial procedures and systems; • adopting and implementing appropriate compliance procedures with respect to state insurance regulations; and • acquiring or leasing additional facilities. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, we may not be able to execute our business strategies on a timely basis, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Industry The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates which could materially and adversely affect our business. The results of operations of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: 54 Table of Contents • competition; • rate increases and decreases; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic and other loss events; • changes in the availability of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; • rising loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we or our groups price insurance products; and • other general economic and social conditions. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus, which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates and additional competition for business. During 1999 and 2000, the workers’ compensation insurance industry experienced substantial pricing competition, and this pricing competition greatly affected the ability of providers to increase premiums. Beginning in 2001, there was a decrease in pricing competition in the industry, which enabled insurers to raise rates. More recent legislative reforms in many states, including California, however, have caused premium rates to decrease. California Bill 899 was passed in April 2004 with the goal of reducing over time the medical and indemnity benefits paid to injured workers. This legislation has allowed insurers to reduce rates, and rates may continue to decrease. In addition, in November 2006, the WCIRB and the Insurance Commissioner recommended an overall 9.5% rate decrease in California for policies written after January 1, 2007. In connection with the changes in rates, the insurance and reinsurance market is subject to intense competition. With the enactment of California Bill 899 and the continued reduction in rates, the California market has become competitive and remains competitive. If rates continue to decrease and competition continues to increase, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. At this time, we are unable to predict the impact that the proposed rate reductions and intense competition might have on our future financial position and results of operations. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. In the event that adverse market conditions develop in the workers’ compensation industry or the insurance industry as a whole, our groups and Majestic may experience difficulties providing workers’ compensation insurance at competitive rates. Because our groups do not have capital and surplus, they do not have the ability to provide coverage at rates that produce a loss after considering investment income and available reinsurance. As a result, our groups may lose members and experience a reduction in their premium revenues during periods of inadequate market pricing. If this occurs, we would experience a reduction in our fee-based management services revenues. In addition, we could be unable to reinsure a portion of the excess coverage at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risks assumed. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our groups and Majestic may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which they are required by law to provide coverage. Our managed groups and Majestic are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on our groups would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Currently, the excess coverage for our groups does not include any sub-limits or exclusions limiting their excess insurers’ obligation to cover losses caused 55 Table of Contents by acts of terrorism, although we cannot assure you that sub-limits or exclusions will not be included in future years. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA 2002”) was renewed through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (“Extension Act”), which extends TRIA 2002 through 2007 with certain amendments. In the case of certified acts of terrorism taking place after March 31, 2006, the program trigger has been set at $50,000,000 for the industry-wide insured losses occurring in 2006 and $100,000,000 for industry-wide losses occurring in 2007. The Federal share of compensation under the Extension Act is 90% for 2006 and 85% for 2007. In addition, insurer deductibles and aggregate retentions are increased for years covered under the Extension Act. This could make membership in our managed groups less attractive, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social, regulatory and other conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. In some instances, as has been the case with asbestos-related injuries, these issues may not become apparent until some time after the insurance coverage has been provided. Such issues may adversely affect the coverage provided by our managed groups and thus our business of reinsuring a portion of the excess coverage obtained by the groups, by either expanding the scope of the coverage provided or by increasing the number or size of claims. Similarly, such issues may adversely affect the insurance coverage provided by Majestic through independent insurance brokers and agents to employers. As a result, the full extent of liability under a group’s or Majestic’s coverage or under our reinsurance may not be known until after coverage is provided. Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include post traumatic stress disorder and whether recent legislation can effectively reduce the incidence of work-related injury medical treatments (e.g., chiropractor services). The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent insurance industry investigations and regulatory proposals could result in increased regulation that has a material adverse effect on our business. The insurance industry has recently become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a number of companies in the insurance industry have received or may receive subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory agencies or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts are expected to result in both enforcement actions and proposals for new state and federal regulation. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form new regulations will have when finally adopted and the impact, if any, of increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. Additionally, proposed legislation or new regulatory requirements are expected to be imposed on the insurance industry and may impact our business and the manner in which we compensate our brokers. In December 2004, NAIC adopted amendments to NAIC’s Producer Licensing Model Act which were ratified by NAIC’s Broker Activities Task Force in June 2005. These amendments require a broker to disclose to the customer, prior to selling insurance to that customer, that the broker will be receiving compensation from the insurer, or other third party, for the placement of the insurance, or that the broker represents the insurer and may provide services to the customer for the insurer. Any of the foregoing could increase our cost of doing business, result in the loss of members of our groups and otherwise adversely affect the way we conduct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 56 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may be volatile and might decline. The trading price of our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile and may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • results of operations that vary from those expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations regarding our future results of operations, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • announcements by third parties of claims against us; • changes in law and regulations; • future sales of our common shares; • changes in the overall market for our common shares; and • the performance or prospects for companies in our industry. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to a company’s operating performance. As a result, the trading price of our common shares may be volatile and decline. Future sales of common shares by our affiliates and other shareholders or by us may adversely affect the price, and the future exercise of options may lower the price, of our common shares. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common shares. Future sales of common shares by our existing shareholders and other shareholders or by us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate. Additional common shares may be issuable pursuant to our 2005 long-term incentive plan, pursuant to which we have reserved an aggregate of up to 1,500,000 common shares for issuance (including 262,841 restricted common shares issued to certain of our employees and our non-employee directors). The former owners of CRM, Eimar and Twin Bridges hold approximately 3,944,514 of our common shares. Commencing on December 20, 2006, these shares became eligible for sale in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act pursuant to the “dribble-out” provisions of that Rule. Our failure to maintain adequate internal controls in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Prior to our initial public offering in December 2005, we had historically committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would have been required of a public company. We recently completed our documenting and testing of our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires annual 57 Table of Contents management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. This was our first report in which we were required to comply with Section 404, and we recently completed our documentation and testing of our internal control procedures. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards as then in effect and as supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. As a result we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price for our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. Provisions in our charter documents may reduce or increase the voting power associated with our common shares and thereby affect your voting rights. Our bye-laws generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, pursuant to a mechanism specified in our bye-laws, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder will be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power conferred by our shares. In addition, our board of directors retains certain discretion to make adjustments to the aggregate number of votes attaching to the shares of any shareholder that they consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to ensure that no person will hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power represented by our then outstanding shares. Our bye-laws provide, generally, that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, more than 9.9% of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than 9.9% of the total voting rights. The reduction in votes is generally to be applied proportionately among all shareholders who are members of the first shareholder’s control group. A control group means, with respect to any person, all shares directly owned by such person and all shares directly owned by each other shareholder any of whose shares are included in the controlled shares of such person. Controlled shares means all common shares that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (within the meaning of Section 958(a) of the Code) or, in the case of a U.S. person, constructively (within the meaning of Section 958(b) of the Code). A similar limitation is to be applied to shares held directly by members of a related group. A related group means a group of shareholders that are investment vehicles and are under common control and management. Any reduction in votes will generally be applied proportionately among members of the shareholder’s control group or related group, as the case may be. The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among all of our other shareholders who were not members of these groups so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our shares. The attribution rules with respect to a control group will not apply to Daniel G. Hickey, Sr. and Daniel G. Hickey, Jr. Accordingly, the voting rights of each of Mr. Hickey, Sr. and Mr. Hickey, Jr. will be limited to 9.9% on an individual basis and not on a joint and aggregate basis. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reduction in the votes of other shareholders, your voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond 58 Table of Contents to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we, in our reasonable discretion, may reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our bye-laws that could have such an effect include the following: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.9% of our common shares will be reduced to 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares; and • our directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register if the shares have not been fully paid for, if the directors are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained, if as a result of the transfer a shareholder would own more than 9.9% of our common shares, or if the instrument of transfer is in favor of more than five persons jointly. Our principal shareholders have the ability to significantly influence our business, which may be disadvantageous to other shareholders and adversely affect the price of our common shares. Daniel G. Hickey, Sr. and David M. Birsner, two of our directors, Daniel G. Hickey, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Louis J. Viglotti, our General Counsel and Secretary, collectively, beneficially own approximately 26.7% of our outstanding common shares and possess approximately 23.7% of the total voting power of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. These shareholders may have interests that are different from ours or other investors. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction would benefit other shareholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership may make it difficult for shareholders to replace management. This concentration could be disadvantageous to other shareholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal shareholders and the price of our common shares could be adversely affected. U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. In order to highlight those differences, we have set forth below a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, including, where relevant, information on our bye-laws, which differ in certain respects from the provisions of Delaware corporate law. Further, under certain circumstances, our bye-laws impose greater restrictions on us than required by the Companies Act. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. 59 Table of Contents Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in the name of a company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of such company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The successful party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of the attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in our right, against any director or officer or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors or resident representative for any action or failure to act in the performance of his duties, except such waiver shall not extend to any claims or rights of action that would render the waiver void pursuant to the Companies Act and arise out of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such person or with respect to the recovery of any gain, personal profit or advantage to which such person is not legally entitled. Conversely, class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware corporate law, for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions under Delaware corporate law, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorney’s fees in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors and any resident representative (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense, to the fullest extent permitted by law, incurred or suffered by such officer, director or other person by reason of any act done, conceived in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of his duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of such director, officer or other person. Under Bermuda law, a company pursuant to (a) the terms of its bye-laws, or (b) a contract or arrangement between the company and any director, officer or auditor, may advance moneys to any director, officer or auditor for the costs, charges and expenses incurred by the officer or auditor in defending any civil or criminal proceedings against them, on condition that the officer or auditor shall repay the advance if any allegation of fraud dishonesty is proved against them. In general, under Delaware corporate law, U.S. companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and reasonably believed their actions were not opposed to the best interests of the company and, with regard to criminal actions or proceedings, without knowing violation of law. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us. We are a Bermuda company and a significant portion of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for shareholders to affect service of process against us or to enforce against us judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not United States) law. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to the public policy of Bermuda. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, may not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, will not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they may be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violations of U.S. 60 Table of Contents federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation CRM Holdings could be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and thus subject to U.S. tax on its worldwide income (including current income of Twin Bridges), if the value of Twin Bridges at the time of our restructuring did not exceed 20% of the total value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges at that time. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 provides that, if a foreign corporation acquires substantially all of the assets of a U.S. corporation, and 80% or more of the stock of the foreign corporation (excluding new stock issued in a public offering related to the acquisition) is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of their ownership of the U.S. corporation, the foreign corporation will be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In our restructuring, the former owners of CRM and Eimar contributed all of their interests in CRM and Eimar to CRM USA Holdings in return for all of the common stock of CRM USA Holdings. The former owners of CRM and Eimar then contributed all of their CRM USA Holdings shares to us in exchange for 6,372,425 of our common shares. In addition, in our restructuring, the former owners of Twin Bridges contributed all of their shares in Twin Bridges to us in exchange for 3,874,690 of our common shares. As a result of these exchanges, the former owners of CRM, Eimar and Twin Bridges acquired 9,457,115 of our common shares and 790,000 of our Class B shares in our restructuring. Based on discussions with our professional advisors at the time of our restructuring, we believe that the former owners of CRM and Eimar did not obtain 80% or more of the stock of CRM Holdings (excluding the stock sold in our initial public offering) by reason of their ownership of CRM and Eimar (i.e., we believe that Twin Bridges was worth more than 20% of the combined value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges). We cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, will agree with our conclusions. If the IRS successfully challenges our conclusions, CRM Holdings would be subject to United States federal income tax on its worldwide income at the rate applicable to U.S. corporations, which is currently 35%, rather than being subject to tax on only certain U.S. source income and income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, in that case, dividends paid to CRM Holdings by its U.S. subsidiaries would not be subject to any U.S. federal income tax, nor would they be subject to the 30% U.S. federal withholding tax. The tax liability that would result if CRM Holdings is treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business or considered to be a personal holding company subject to U.S. tax. CRM Holdings and Twin Bridges are both Bermuda exempted companies. An exempted company is a company that states in its memorandum of association that it is an exempted company and is registered under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, or the Companies Act, as such. An exempted company does not have to comply with the requirements of management and ownership by Bermudians applicable to local companies under the Companies Act. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies will not be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States and, as a result, will not be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the IRS will not successfully contend that CRM Holdings or Twin Bridges is engaged in a trade or business within the United States. In the event that CRM Holdings or Twin Bridges is deemed to be engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we would be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of our earnings effectively connected to such U.S. trade or business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of CRM Holdings’ U.S. subsidiaries might be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax on a portion of its income if it is considered a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares by value could be deemed to be owned (taking into 61 Table of Contents account indirect and constructive ownership) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of such subsidiary’s adjusted ordinary gross income consists of “personal holding company income,” which is, in general, certain forms of passive and investment income. We believe that none of CRM Holdings’ subsidiaries should be considered a personal holding company, because the gross income of our U.S. subsidiaries is primarily fee income and not passive income. In addition, we intend to manage our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. We monitor share ownership in CRM Holdings by monitoring the filings of our shareholders with the SEC, under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. It may not be possible, however, to ensure that stock has not been purchased by multiple members of one family or other individuals or entities whose share ownership may be attributed to others for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership (i.e., particularly as determined by the constructive ownership rules for personal holding companies), we cannot assure you that none of CRM Holdings’ subsidiaries will be considered a personal holding company or that the amount of U.S. federal income tax that would be imposed would be immaterial. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether any of CRM Holdings’ subsidiaries will be considered a personal holding company. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda has given each of CRM Holdings and Twin Bridges an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to CRM Holdings or Twin Bridges or any of their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If you acquire 10% or more of our shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation for an uninterrupted period of thirty days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the controlled foreign corporation directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the corporation’s taxable year on which such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. Subpart F income generally includes, among other things, investment income such as dividends, interest and capital gains, and income from insuring risks located outside the insurer’s country of incorporation. A foreign corporation is considered a controlled foreign corporation if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation entitled to vote. For purposes of taking into account subpart F income consisting of insurance income, a controlled foreign corporation also includes a foreign corporation of which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts generating subpart F income exceeds 75% of the gross amount of premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. It is expected that all of Twin Bridges’ income will be considered subpart F insurance income. For purposes of determining whether the more-than-50% (or more-than-25%, in the case of insurance income) and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, and therefore whether a corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. CRM Holdings’ bye-laws contain provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares. Accordingly, based upon these provisions and the dispersion of our share ownership, we do not believe that we have any 10% U.S. Shareholders. It is possible, however that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. 62 Table of Contents U.S. persons who hold shares could be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a passive foreign investment company. However, it is possible that we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company by the IRS. If we were considered a passive foreign investment company it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be issued in the future. We cannot predict what impact, if any, this guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company for any year. U.S. persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our “related person insurance income.” In the event that: • Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income equals or exceeds 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year, • direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Twin Bridges, and • U.S. persons are considered to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of Twin Bridges by vote or value, then a U.S. person who owns any of our shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of Twin Bridges’ taxable year on which it is a controlled foreign corporation would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Twin Bridges’ related person insurance income for the U.S. person’s taxable year that includes the end of Twin Bridges’ taxable year determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition any related person insurance income that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of related person insurance income earned by Twin Bridges (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Twin Bridges or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Twin Bridges. Although we do not expect our gross related person insurance income to equal or exceed 20% of our gross insurance income in the foreseeable future, some of the factors which determine the extent of related person insurance income in any period may be beyond Twin Bridges’ control. Consequently, Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income could equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The related person insurance income rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income (even if the amount of related person insurance income is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to related person insurance income). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. We believe that these rules should not apply to 63 Table of Contents dispositions of our shares because CRM Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. The U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a passive foreign investment company or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the related person insurance income of a controlled foreign corporation are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding related person insurance income are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be issued in the future. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such regulations or guidance will have a retroactive effect. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 