ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the trading price of our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY, NATURE OF OUR SERVICES AND SENSITIVITY TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Demand for our services may decrease during economic recession. The transportation industry has historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of its customers, fuel shortages, price increases by carriers, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Carriers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and in such circumstances, our gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher transportation costs. Furthermore, many of our customers’ business models are dependent on expenditures by advertisers. These expenditures tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. If economic recession or a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, particularly to the single copy distribution channel, our operating results could also be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar event. We cannot predict the effects on our business of heightened security measures, including actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or other similar events. It is possible that one or more of these events could be directed at U.S. or foreign ports, borders, railroads or highways. Heightened security measures or other events are likely to slow the movement of freight through U.S. or foreign ports, across borders or on U.S. or foreign railroads or highways and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any of these events could also negatively affect the economy and consumer confidence, which could cause a downturn in the transportation industry. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical industries, represent a significant portion of our customers’ advertising revenues. If any of these events cause a significant reduction in the advertising spending in these sectors, it could adversely affect our customers’ advertising revenues and, by extension, our revenues. Fuel cost inflation may increase our costs and adversely affect our results. A significant proportion of our services and the incidental supplies in providing our services are dependent on petroleum-based commodities, particularly fuel costs. Volatility in the price of these commodities could increase our costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our customers could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. Our customers operate within a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute magazines published by customer publishers and other publishers to newsstands and other retail outlets. Due to industry consolidation, three wholesalers represent approximately 90% of the wholesale magazine distribution business. There is a possibility of further consolidation among these wholesalers and/or insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should such further consolidation occur, the number of locations to which we transport product could be reduced. Fewer destination points could reduce the need for our services or adversely affect our pricing to our customers. While insolvency of a wholesaler would not be expected to adversely affect our cash flow since we generally do not invoice wholesalers, such insolvency would, however, adversely affect our customer publishers’ cash flows and could impede the flow of product through the wholesale distribution channel. A disruption in the wholesale channel due to wholesaler insolvency or any other reason could adversely affect our customers’ ability to distribute magazines to the retail market place and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 13 Our customers face significant competition for advertising and circulation both from other publishers as well as via alternative forms of content delivery. Our customers’ magazine operations compete for circulation and audience with numerous other magazine publishers and producers of other media, including evolving new forms of content delivery which include the Internet, use of e-readers and other mobile devices. Whether by loss of market share to competitors or through digital methods of delivering the same content, we could lose sales volume. Such loss of revenue could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. If we do not effectively compete with new and existing competitors, our revenues and operating margins will decline. In addition to competition from in-house distribution arms of large major printers, we face competition from participants in the freight forwarding, logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. We believe this industry is intensely competitive and expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical, information technology, and marketing resources. We encounter competition from regional and local third-party logistics providers, freight forwarders, integrated transportation companies, truck brokerage niche players, smaller printers, trucking companies, and large integrated service competitors. We also face competition from air and ocean carriers, consulting firms and contract manufacturers, many of which are beginning to expand the scope of their operations to include supply chain related services. In addition, in some instances clients increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving a number of competitors, including competitors that may have better economies of scale. Increased competition could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and the long-term or short-term prospects for our business. The principal competitive factors in our services include: price, service quality, delivery speed, marketing, customer services, and information technology offerings. If we do not sufficiently differentiate our services on these factors, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could require us to reduce the price of our services, and our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and a number of companies that may enter our existing or future markets. Our competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their service offering to address the needs of their current and prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among current and new competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share and service economies. Such competition could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our services on terms favorable to us. We depend upon others to provide equipment and services. We do not own or control the vast majority of transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight. We control a limited number of trucks for the provision of our services through a dedicated fleet that is managed by a large third party carrier. For the vast majority of our transportation needs we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering freight. We are dependent on independent third parties to provide most truck and all rail, ocean and air services and to report certain events to us including delivery information and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing revenue, expenses, claims, and associated liabilities. In addition, if we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Our ability to secure sufficient transportation services is subject to certain risks, many of which are beyond our control, including: 14 · equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among truckload carriers; · interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; · changes in regulations impacting transportation; and · unanticipated changes in transportation rates. Our business and results of operations could also be adversely affected by work stoppages and other disruptive organized labor activities by those third party truck, rail, ocean and air equipment and service providers that are unionized. While we do not have definitive information as to the extent the carriers servicing our domestic operations are unionized, we believe that a small minority of such carriers we use are unionized. While we also do not have definitive information as to the extent the carriers servicing our international operations are unionized, and while we are unaware of any specific business relationships involving unionized carriers, we expect that certain of these international carriers are also unionized. These unionized international carriers would be predominately carriers that transport our freight in international markets between their facilities, airports and piers. It is also generally known that stevedores, who may handle some of our ocean cargo shipments, are often unionized. Furthermore, there are significant numbers of unionized personnel working at air carriers which handle a portion of our international business. These include, but are not limited to, airline pilots, ground handlers and flight attendants. To date, we have not been materially adversely affected by the activities of organized labor domestically or internationally with respect to any third party service providers. The risk exists, however, that we could lose business in the event of any significant work stoppage or slowdown with one or more of our domestic or international carriers and that such a loss could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Rates for both domestic and international transportation services are negotiated with individual carriers only and not with union representatives. On a number of our shipping routes, we are dependent on a small number of third party carriers to provide key components for our services. On a number of our shipping routes, we are dependent on a small number of third party carriers. This reliance may result in service delays which may adversely affect our reputation, and may increases in our costs, which we may not be able to recover. Further, only a small portion of our transportation services are covered by long-term dedicated fleet arrangements, thus, most of our services are provided by non-exclusive common carriers on terms that are subject to change with limited notice. From time to time, carriers may also cease to do business with us for various reasons, or change pricing or other terms and conditions. Any such termination or the implementation of such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. The loss of, or change in, business relationship with key third party carriers, could negatively impact our competitive position. Additionally, a merger or consolidation among our suppliers could result in price increases which would adversely impact our results of operations. Our non-asset based transportation management, North American and international freight forwarding and logistics businesses are subject to a number of factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our non-asset based transportation management, North American and international freight forwarding and logistics businesses are subject to a number of factors that are largely beyond our control, including: · potential liability to third parties and clients as a result of accidents involving our employees, independent contractors or third party carriers; · increased insurance premiums, the unavailability of adequate insurance coverage, or the solvency of our current insurance providers; · recruitment and retention of agents and affiliates; · adverse weather and natural disasters; · changes in fuel taxes; · the ability to effectively pass through fuel cost increases to our clients through commonly accepted fuel surcharges; · potentially adverse effects from federal standards for new engine emissions; and · a carrier’s failure to deliver freight pursuant to client requirements. 15 If any of these risks or others occur, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger, global companies in our industry. There currently is a marked trend within our industry toward consolidation of niche players into larger companies which are attempting to increase their global operations through the acquisition of freight forwarders and contract logistics providers. If we cannot maintain sufficient market presence in our industry through internal expansion and additional acquisitions, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger, global companies in our industry. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The highly competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce the prices we charge for our services. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historical prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that competition will increase in the future, which could require us to reduce prices, increase marketing and sales expenditures or take other actions which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Decreasing prices resulting from competition and technological changes require us to sell more services to achieve the same level of net revenues and gross profit. If this occurs and we are unable to attract new customers and sell increased volume of services, our revenue growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Any broad-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements, and our customers adjust to, the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle services for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our services. Historically, a few customers have accounted for a meaningful proportion of our revenues. The loss of a significant customer would significantly reduce our revenues. Our customer base is relatively concentrated. In 2010 and 2009, two customers accounted for about 29% and 26%, respectively, of our entire net revenues. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to have a relatively highly concentrated customer base, and the loss of a significant customer would substantially reduce our revenues. In addition, revenues to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If our customer freight volumes decline we may not be able to replace the business. Any such changes in our freight volumes from our significant customers may result in a significant decline in our revenues and profitability. Significant customers may also seek and on occasion receive pricing, payment terms or other conditions that are less favorable to us. In addition, certain significant customers may form strategic alliances or collaborative efforts that could result in additional complexities in managing individual customer relationships and transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Covenants in our debt instruments could trigger a default adversely affecting our ability to execute our business plan, our ability to obtain further financing, and potentially adversely affect the ownership of our assets. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our loan agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further debt. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our debt facilities and our other indebtedness or be able to implement our business plan. If we are unable to repay our outstanding indebtedness, the bank could foreclose on all of our assets, which collateralize our borrowings. Accordingly, the occurrence of an event of default could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations, and our viability as a going concern. 16 Under our current credit facility we are subject to certain financial and other covenants. Our current credit facility includes, financial covenant requiring us to maintain a specified cumulative EBITDA level, as defined in the credit agreement. While we are presently in compliance with all of our financial and other covenants, over the past year, we have at times been out of compliance with certain of the financial covenants contained in our current and former credit facilities. Such non-compliance was, in each instance, waived by the respective lender. Our ability to meet our financial and other covenants in the future may be affected by economic, market, and competitive events beyond our control; accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance. Nor can we provide any assurance that, should we again be out of compliance with our covenants, our lenders will provide waivers in the future. In fiscal 2009 and 2010, we incurred net losses, and if we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our operations or fulfill our present or future obligations. We have incurred net losses in each of the prior two years totaling $5.8 million, contributing to our $67.5 million accumulated deficit at January 1, 2011, and in 2010, we used about $3.0 million of cash as a result of our operating activities. We believe that we may continue to incur net losses in the foreseeable future, as we attempt to improve the Company’s profitability. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and fulfill our present and future obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to sell assets or raise equity or debt financings when needed on desirable terms or at all. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations, whether as a result of an inability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise, could cause us to delay or postpone our expansion plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may seek to raise capital in the future to fund our operations, our ability to do so may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. While we believe that our existing cash resources and available debt financing will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months, if we seek to accelerate our growth plans or acquire other businesses, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or to obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, this would significantly limit our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities such as acquisitions of businesses or technologies, develop or enhance services, or respond to competitive pressures. We operate in an industry affected by technological change and changing customer requirements and demands and our revenues are increasingly more dependent on our competitive ability to provide customers with transparency regarding the tracking and other information about their products distributed via our services. The markets for our services are impacted by technological change; fluctuations in customer demand; changes in customer requirements; and new service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance and improve our services, the failure to do so could result in a significant decrease in our service revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in this effort. Our future success could be hindered by: delays in our introduction of new services; delays in market acceptance of any new services; delays in the provision of our current services; and our, or a competitor’s, announcement of any new or enhanced service offering. 17 OTHER BUSINESS RISKS If we fail to effectively manage our operations, maintain our revenues or control our expenses, our future operating results could be adversely affected. The scope of our operations and the geographic area of our operations have expanded. Future growth could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our services in a timely and cost-effective way. We can provide no assurance that the market we serve will grow. We also can provide no assurance that we will be successful in developing and introducing new services or that any new services we may introduce will actually increase our revenue growth rate. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses, we may not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue therefore could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Accordingly, our revenue growth, profitability and cash flows from operating activities could be lower than in recent years. If we are unable retain key executive and management personnel, we may not be able to manage and execute our business plan. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees. Many of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees or have limited employment contracts and are not covered by key-person life insurance policies. Competition for these types of employees is intense, and it is possible that we will not be able to retain our key employees and that we will not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining qualified candidates in the future. If we cannot attract and hire enough qualified employees, it will adversely affect our ability to manage our business, develop, acquire new products and increase revenue. The effective management of our business depends upon our ability to retain skilled technical, managerial, finance, manufacturing and marketing personnel. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. To achieve our growth objectives, we also need to add key personnel in the future. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel in sufficient numbers. We might not attract and retain enough qualified personnel to support our anticipated domestic or international growth and our expanding service offerings. The temporary and ongoing salary and compensation concessions we implemented in fiscal 2009 and 2010, which remain in effect, further heighten these risks. We may incur substantial additional costs to motivate, attract, and retain key employees. As a result of our adoption of authoritative guidance regarding share-based payments, which include stock options and restricted stock awards granted to employees, we are required to recognize expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations that will never be settled in cash. This requirement reduces the attractiveness of granting equity-based compensation as the expense associated with these grants decrease our profitability. In addition, regulations adopted by the stock exchanges require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and prohibit member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 18 If we do not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees as a result of these or other factors, our operating results and ability to capitalize on our opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. Further, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which would adversely affect our business. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, mandate, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members and impose increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. In addition, regulations adopted by stock exchanges require comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased and make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer (“D&O”) liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties that cannot be addressed with D&O insurance. Disruption of our operations at our corporate headquarters or significant distribution centers could negatively impact our ability to operate The occurrence of natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could cause interruptions in our operations. Extensive or multiple interruptions in our operations due to natural disasters or unanticipated catastrophes could severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we determine that any of our intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under authoritative guidance, purchased goodwill and other intangible assets are periodically reviewed for impairment. Such impairment could be caused by internal factors as well as external factors beyond our control. Under the authoritative guidance, at the time goodwill or other intangible asset is considered impaired, an amount equal to the impairment loss should be charged as an operating expense in the statement of operations. The timing of such an impairment (if any) is uncertain and difficult to predict. Our results of operations in periods following any such impairment could be materially adversely affected. During the 47 weeks ending January 3, 2009, we took an intangible asset impairment charge of $66.6 million. During the 52 weeks ended January 2, 2010, we took an intangible asset impairment charge of $1.1 million. We have remaining net acquired intangible assets of approximately $13.0 million at January 1, 2010. If we are required to take additional impairment charges, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We review for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The success of our business depends on the continuing development, maintenance and operation of our information technology systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, proper utilization and continuing development of our information technology systems, including our business application systems, web servers and telecommunications network. The quality and our utilization of the information generated by our information technology systems, and our success in implementing new systems and upgrades, affects, among other things, our ability to: · conduct business with our customers; · manage accounts receivable; 19 · purchase, sell, manage and invoice our services efficiently and on a timely basis; and · maintain our cost-efficient operating model. The integrity of our information technology systems is vulnerable to certain forms of disaster including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as tornadoes. While we have taken steps to protect our information technology systems from a variety of threats, including computer viruses and malicious hackers, there can be no guarantee that those steps will be effective. Furthermore, although we have redundant systems at a separate location to back up our primary application systems, there can be no assurance that these redundant systems will operate properly if and when required. Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our business and results of operations. We have operations, clients, and vendors throughout the world. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as computer “hacking” or the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, could significantly interfere with our business operations. If we fail to develop and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose inventory items, orders or clients, which could seriously harm our business. Our continued success is dependent on our systems continuing to operate and to meet the changing needs of our customers. Increasingly, we compete for clients based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site or connect electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent clients from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or clients. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future transaction volumes will decline. In addition, we expect clients to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from their supply chain services providers. We have internally developed the majority of our operating systems. We are reliant on our technology staff to successfully implement changes to our operating systems in an efficient manner. If we fail to hire or retain qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose inventory items, orders or clients, which could seriously harm our business. Our information technology systems are subject to risks which we cannot control. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, unauthorized access with malicious intent and similar intrusions. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our clients or the ability of our clients to access our information technology systems, or result in the loss or theft of mission-critical information. 20 REGULATORY RISKS We are subject to DOT, TSA, OSHA and other pertinent regulations and laws in the United States that could cause us to incur significant compliance expenditures and liability for noncompliance. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the Unites States pertaining to our business, including those primarily related to safety and promulgated or administered by the DOT, the TSA and OSHA. Specifically, we are subject to DOT regulations related to vehicular operating safety which regulate, among other things, driver’s hours of service and require us to maintain driver’s logs, driver’s information files and vehicle inspections reports, conduct scheduled preventative vehicle maintenance, perform random driver drug and alcohol tests, record and report motor vehicle accidents, and maintain current vehicle registrations. In addition, our subsidiary, Clark Worldwide Transportation, Inc. (“CWT”), is registered with the TSA as an indirect air carrier (“IAC”) and operates within and according to its regulations which are intended to ensure that the cargo presented to airlines for carriage is safe. Among other things, we are required to comply with security requirements, maintain the confidentiality of certain security information and procedures and designate and use a security coordinator. We are also subject to various OSHA regulations that primarily deal with maintaining a safe workplace environment. OSHA regulations require us, among other things, to maintain documentation of work related injuries, illnesses and fatalities and files for recordable events, complete workers’ compensation loss reports and review the status of outstanding worker compensation claims, and complete certain annual filings and postings. We may be involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and investigation with these United States governmental agencies, including inspections and audits by the applicable agencies related to our compliance with these rules and regulations. To date, our compliance with these and other applicable regulations has not had a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our failure, however, to comply with these and other applicable requirements in the future could result in fines and penalties to us and require us to undertake certain remedial actions or be subject to a suspension of our business, which, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. Moreover, our mere involvement in any audits and investigations or other proceedings could result in substantial financial cost to us and divert our management’s attention. Likewise, a failure by our third party service providers to comply with applicable regulations that results in increased costs of the services they provide to us or results in a disruption to their business and ability to provide services to us could have a materially adverse effect on us. Additionally, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, new laws or regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, may give rise to additional compliance or remedial costs that could be material. We cannot provide any assurance that current laws, or any laws enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in and compliance with such laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in increased costs, the need to modify our services and could affect the demand for our services, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. If we do not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to costs and liabilities and our business may be adversely impacted. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates. We are subject to taxation in the United States and the various states in which we operate. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate our tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the following: · earnings being lower than anticipated in states where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to higher than anticipated in states where we are taxed at higher rates; · an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock compensation, and impairment of intangible assets; · changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; · changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; or 21 · new accounting standards or interpretations of such standards. Accordingly, forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and appropriate valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations. We provide for tax liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets unless we consider it probable that additional taxes will not be due. However, the ultimate outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of such issues. In addition, we cannot assure you that such amounts will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods recorded. Given the complexity of our domestic and international operations, compounded by the growing diversity of services we provide, changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, pose a greater risk that we could recognize lower revenue and profits, adversely impact our ability to provide financial guidance, and negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility. Policies, guidelines and interpretations related to revenue recognition, accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, facilities consolidation charges, allowances for doubtful accounts, stock-based compensation and other financial reporting matters require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance and the factors associated with estimates related to these matters may be subject to a great degree of variability. To the extent that management’s judgment is incorrect, it could result in an adverse impact on our financial statements. Some of these matters are also among topics currently under re-examination by accounting standard setters and regulators. These standard setters and regulators could promulgate interpretations and guidance that could result in material and potentially adverse changes to our accounting policies. Failure to achieve or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may materially adversely impact our business. Our assessment is that our internal controls over financial reporting need improvement. If we fail to achieve or maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the public’s perception of our company may decline and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is complex, costly and time-consuming. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to achieve or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2011, management performed its assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and reported on the effectiveness of such controls, which report is set forth in Item 9A. In performing its assessment, management identified certain deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting resulting from a lack of audit trails and other imbedded controls in the Company’s existing accounting systems. We are in the process of implementing a new financial accounting system, that when completed, is expected to remediate these deficiencies. 22 RISKS OF OWNING OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price has been volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past and your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. For example, during the past twelve months ended January 1, 2010, the closing sales price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $0.70 per share to a low of $0.11 per share. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to the following: · quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, service improvements, significant contracts; · commercial relationships or capital commitments; · the emergence of new sales or distribution channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; · our ability to develop and market new and enhanced services on a timely basis; · commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; · recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; · announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; and · general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. The stock market in general, and the market for small market capitalization companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our fluctuating stock price also carries other risks, including the increased risk of shareholder litigation. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. Since becoming a public company, we have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Future cash dividends on the common stock, if any, will be at the discretion of our board, and will depend on our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions imposed by lending or other agreements, and other factors that the board may consider important. We are authorized to issue preferred stock which may alter the rights of common stock holders by giving preferred stock holders greater dividend rights, liquidation rights and voting rights than our common stockholders have. Our board is empowered to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. While we do not currently have any shares of preferred stock outstanding, our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes a class of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designation, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents and certain provisions under Delaware law could be dilutive and prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with voting rights or such other rights, preferences and terms as it may determine. Also, Delaware law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction were favored by independent stockholders. 23 Voting control by our executive officers and directors may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our officers and directors collectively own approximately 24% of our voting stock. Accordingly, they will be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NYSE Amex, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to resell their common stock in the secondary market. Although our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Amex, we might not meet the criteria for continued listing on the NYSE Amex in the future. If we are unable to meet the continued listing criteria of the NYSE Amex and become delisted, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. In such case, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate market quotations for it. The NYSE Amex has certain quantitative and other maintenance criteria for the continued listing of common stock, including criteria relating to our stockholders’ equity, our total market capitalization, our public float, the selling price of our common stock and the number of holders of our common stock. If we fail to maintain continued listing on the NYSE Amex and must move to a market with less liquidity, our stock price would likely decline. If we are delisted from the NYSE Amex, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of, and the liquidity of the trading market for, our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE Amex, it may become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s ‘‘penny stock rules,’’ which impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell that common stock to persons other than established customers and ‘‘accredited investors.’’ Application of this rule could make broker-dealers unable or unwilling to sell our common stock and limit the ability of stockholders to sell their common stock in the secondary market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 