Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our business, our structure as a limited partnership and our tax treatment could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering an investment in our securities. These are not all of the risks we face as there are other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us that may impact our future operations.RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN USWe may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay our current quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursement of fees and expenses of our General Partner.We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to pay our Minimum Quarterly Distribution (MQD) in the amount of $0.35 per common unit. The amount of cash we can distribute to our unitholders depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:•prevailing economic conditions;•the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales;•the prices of, level of, production of, and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil (crude, and/or condensate, a lighter oil);•the volumes of natural gas, NGLs and oil (crude, and/or condensate, a lighter oil) we gather, process and transport; and•the amounts of our operating costs, including reimbursement of fees and expenses of our General Partner.In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our debt service requirements;•our obligation to pay distributions on our Series A Preferred Units;•fluctuation in our working capital needs;•our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;•restrictions contained in our debt agreements;•the cost of acquisitions, if any;•the amounts of cash reserves established by our General Partner; and 20Table of Contents •our ability to maintain commodity hedge prices from year to year.You should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, not net income (loss) calculated in accordance with GAAP. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes.Our cash flow is affected by supply and demand for natural gas, NGL products, oil (crude, and/or condensate, a lighter oil) and by natural gas and NGL prices. Natural gas, NGLs, crude oil, and other commodity prices are volatile, and an unfavorable change in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results.We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. NGL prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices as well as global demand of petrochemical products. In the past, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and this volatility could continue. Volatility in crude oil, natural gas and NGL prices can impact our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services, as well as our margins under our keep-whole and percentage-of-proceeds natural gas gathering and processing contracts. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including:•the impact of weather on the demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; •the level of domestic crude oil and natural gas production; •the availability of imported crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; •actions taken by foreign crude oil and gas producing nations; •the availability of local transportation systems; •the price, availability and marketing of competitive fuels; •the demand for electricity; •the impact of energy conservation efforts; and •the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Our natural gas gathering and processing businesses operate under two types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain from the sale an agreed percentage of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs resulting from our processing activities (in cash or in-kind) at market prices. Under keep-whole arrangements, we receive the NGLs removed from the natural gas during our processing operations as the fee for providing our services in exchange for replacing the thermal content removed as NGLs with a like thermal content in pipeline-quality gas or its cash equivalent. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGLs prices, it is more profitable for us to process natural gas under keep-whole arrangements. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGLs prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and of the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants.Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities.Our leverage is significant in relation to our partners’ capital. Our debt to capital ratio, calculated as total debt divided by the sum of total debt and partners’ capital, as of December 31, 2014 was 41%. We will be prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under any of our indebtedness, and, in the case of the indentures governing our senior notes, the failure to maintain a prescribed ratio of consolidated cash flows (as defined in such indentures) to interest expense. Various limitations in our credit facility, as well as the indentures governing our senior notes, may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on certain business opportunities. Any refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions.Our leverage may adversely affect our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements, future acquisition, construction or development activities, or otherwise realize fully the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage may also make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. 21Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our common unit price and our ability to issue additional equity in order to finance acquisitions, to reduce debt or for other purposes.The interest rates on our senior notes are fixed and the loans outstanding under our credit facility bear interest at a floating rate. Interest rates on future credit facilities and senior notes could be significantly higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, the market price for our common units will be affected by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity in order to make acquisitions, to reduce debt or for other purposes.Because we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, our future growth may be limited.Since we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, subject to the limitations on restricted payments contained in the indentures governing our senior notes and our credit facility, we will depend on financing provided by commercial banks and other lenders and the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance any significant internal organic growth or acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing from these sources, our ability to grow will be limited.To the extent that we intend to grow internally through construction of new, or modification of existing, facilities, we may not be able to manage that growth effectively, which could decrease our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operations.A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to grow internally will depend on a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control. We may not be able to finance planned construction or modifications on satisfactory terms. In general, the construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control. Any project that we undertake may not be completed on schedule, at budgeted cost or at all. Construction may occur over an extended period, and we are not likely to receive a material increase in revenues related to such project until it is completed. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the completion of construction because the anticipated growth in production that the project was intended to capture may not materialize, our estimate of the growth in production proves inaccurate or for other reasons. For any of these reasons, newly constructed or modified midstream facilities may not generate our expected investment return and that, in turn, could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, our ability to undertake growth projects in this fashion will depend on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate these facilities when completed.We may have difficulty financing our planned capital expenditures, including making additional capital contributions to our joint ventures, which could adversely affect our results and growth.We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including borrowings under our credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. If we are not able to obtain adequate financing from the capital markets, our ability to grow and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. To access amounts under our credit facility for joint venture capital expenditures or additional investments, we may need to amend to our credit facility, and we cannot assure you that we can obtain any such amendment.We may not have the ability to raise funds necessary to finance any change of control offer required under our senior notes and our Series A Preferred Units or to repay our credit facility upon a change of control.If a change of control (as defined in the indentures governing our senior notes) occurs, we will be required to offer to purchase our outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a purchase offer obligation arises under these indentures, a change of control could also have occurred under our credit facility, which could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding thereunder. Further, if a change of control (as defined in our partnership agreement) occurs, we will be required, under certain circumstances, to offer to purchase the Series A Preferred Units at 101% of their liquidation value (as defined in our partnership agreement) Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar restrictions and provisions. If a change in control were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the purchase price of all debt or the Series A Preferred Units that we are required to purchase or repay. 22Table of Contents Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if our General Partner is unable to hire or retain key management or operational personnel.We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers. The departure of any of our executive officers could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Additionally, employees of our General Partner and its affiliates operate some of our business activities. Our General Partner’s ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel will continue to be important and will become more challenging as we grow and if energy industry market conditions remain positive.When general industry conditions are good, the competition for experienced operational and field technicians increases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if our General Partner or its affiliates that provide these personnel are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel.A downgrade of our credit rating could impact our liquidity, access to capital and our costs of doing business, and maintaining credit ratings is under the control of independent third parties.Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of criteria including, but not limited to, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current credit ratings. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to post collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. Our ability to access capital markets could also be limited by a downgrade of our credit rating.ETE and ETP may sell common units in the public or private markets, and the sale could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units. As of February 19, 2015, ETE directly owns 26,266,791 of our common units and its subsidiary, ETE Common Holdings, LLC, owns 30,890,565 of our common units, ETP indirectly owns 31,372,419 of our common units and 6,274,483 of our Class F units, which will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis in May 2015. All such common units have correlating demand registration rights pursuant to which we are obligated to register the common units for resale under the Securities Act. The resale of these common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units or on the trading market for them. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings.At December 31, 2014, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $1.2 billion of goodwill and $3.4 billion of intangible assets. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur that indicate goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets such as intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a correlative effect on partners’ capital and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. During 2014, we recorded a $370 million goodwill impairment charge related to our Permian reporting unit within the Gathering and Processing segment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSOur success depends on our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas, NGLs, and crude oil. Any decrease in supplies or the price of natural gas, NGLs, or crude oil in our areas of operation could adversely affect our business and operating results.Our gathering and processing and transportation pipeline systems are dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells that supply our systems and such production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput volume levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our assets are: the level of successful drilling activity near our systems and our ability to compete with other gathering and processing companies for volumes from successful new wells. 23Table of Contents The level of natural gas drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. A sustained decline in natural gas prices, as has occurred in recent years, could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and processing facilities and pipeline transportation systems, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Some producers have indicated that they will focus their exploration and production efforts on geographic areas with oil and NGL-rich natural gas products. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budget limitations, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes.Because of these factors, even if additional natural gas reserves were discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we were not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput volumes on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our natural gas contract compression operations significantly depend upon the continued demand for and production of natural gas and crude oil. Demand may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, crude oil prices, weather, demand for energy, and availability of alternative energy sources. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for natural gas or crude oil would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production activity and result in a decline in the demand for our contract compression services and products. Lower natural gas prices or crude oil prices over the long-term could result in a decline in the production of natural gas or crude oil, respectively, resulting in reduced demand for our natural gas contract compression services. Additionally, production from natural gas sources such as longer-lived tight sands, shales and beds constitute an increasing percentage of our compression services business. Such sources are generally less economically feasible to produce in lower natural gas price environments, and a reduction in demand for natural gas may cause such sources of natural gas to be uneconomic to drill and produce, which could in turn negatively impact the demand for our compression services.The profitability of certain activities in our NGLs and refined products storage business, our NGLs transportation business and our off-gas processing and fractionating business are largely dependent upon market demand for NGLs and refined products, and competition in the market place, both of which are factors that are beyond our control. Our NGLs and refined products storage revenues are primarily derived from fixed capacity arrangements between us and our customers. However, a portion of our revenues are derived from fungible storage and throughput arrangements, under which our revenues are more dependent upon demand for storage from our customers. Demand for these services may fluctuate as a result of changes in commodity prices. Our NGLs and refined products storage assets are primarily located in the Mont Belvieu area, which is a significant storage distribution and trading complex with multiple industry participants, any one of which could compete for the business of our existing and potential customers. Any loss of business from existing customers or our inability to attract new customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Revenues from our NGLs transportation systems are exposed to risks due to fluctuations in demand for transportation as a result of unfavorable commodity prices and competition from nearby pipelines. We receive substantially all of our transportation revenues through dedicated contracts under which the customer agrees to deliver the total output from particular processing plants that are connected only to our transportation system. We may not be able to renew these contracts or execute new customer contracts on favorable terms if NGLs prices decline and demand for our transportation services decreases. Any loss of existing customers due to decreased demand for our services or competition from other transportation service providers could have a negative impact on our revenues and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Revenues from our off-gas processing and fractionating system in south Louisiana are exposed to risks due to the low concentration of suppliers near our facilities and the possibility that connected refineries may not provide us with sufficient off-gas for processing at our facilities. The connected refineries may also experience outages due to maintenance issues and severe weather, such as hurricanes. We receive revenues primarily through a percent-of-proceeds arrangements, as well as from transportation and fractionation fees. Consequently, a large portion of our off-gas processing and fractionation revenues are exposed to risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. In addition, a decline in NGL prices could cause a decrease in demand for our off-gas processing and fractionation services and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of our customers’ drilling activity levels and spending for transportation on our gathering and pipeline systems may be impacted by commodity prices and the credit markets.Many of our customers finance their drilling activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Any combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in natural gas prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for natural gas or crude oil drilling activity, which could result in lower volumes being transported on our gathering and pipeline systems. A significant reduction in drilling activity could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 24Table of Contents We depend on certain key producers and other customers for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas, contract compression and contract treating revenues. The loss of, or reduction in, any of these key producers or customers could adversely affect our business and operating results.We rely on a limited number of producers and other customers for a significant portion of our natural gas supplies and our contracts for compression services. These contracts have terms that range from month-to-month to life of lease. As these contracts expire, we will have to negotiate extensions or renewals or replace the contracts with those of other suppliers. We may be unable to obtain new or renewed contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the volumes of natural gas supplied by these producers and other customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, our shippers in interconnecting, third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.Users of our pipelines are dependent upon connections to and from third-party pipelines to receive and deliver natural gas, NGLs, and oil (crude and/or condensate, a lighter crude). Any reduction in the capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes being transported in our pipelines. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of natural gas, NGLs, and oil (crude and/or condensate, a lighter crude) over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to existing shippers in these pipelines could be reduced, which could also reduce volumes transported in our pipelines. Any reduction in volumes transported in our pipelines would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.The contract compression business within our Contract Services segment depends on particular suppliers and is vulnerable to parts and equipment shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.The principal manufacturers of components for our natural gas compression equipment include Caterpillar, Inc. for engines, Air-X-Changers for coolers, and Ariel Corporation for compressors and frames. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. We also rely primarily on one vendor, SEC Energy Products & Services, L.P., a subsidiary of ETP, to package and assemble our compression units. We do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers or packagers, and a partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. In addition, since we expect any increase in component prices for compression equipment or packaging costs will be passed on to us, a significant increase in their pricing could have a negative impact on our results of operations.The contract treating business within our Contract Services segment depends on particular suppliers and is vulnerable to parts and equipment shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.Our contract treating business’ ability to manufacture new equipment used to provide treating services, and to obtain replacement components, depends on particular suppliers and is sensitive to equipment shortages and price increases. Spitzer Industries, the principal manufacturer and packager of amine plants, determines the cost of our contract treating equipment based primarily on the price and availability of commodities (i.e. steel), components and labor. If a significant increase in the cost of manufacturing were to occur, we could see a reduced rate of return on our capital investments relating to our contract treating business absent offsetting increases in revenue rates.In accordance with industry practice, we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering systems. Accordingly, volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations.Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated lives of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated lives of the reserves connected to our gathering systems are less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25Table of Contents In our gathering and processing business, we purchase raw natural gas containing significant quantities of NGLs, process the raw natural gas and sell the processed gas and NGLs. If we are unsuccessful in balancing the purchase of raw natural gas with its component NGLs and our sales of pipeline quality gas and NGLs, our exposure to commodity price risks will increase.We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering and processing systems and our RIGS transportation pipeline for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and utilities. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes or could deliver volumes in excess of contracted volumes, a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes, or the natural gas price differential between the regions in which we operate could vary unexpectedly. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to not be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating results.We may be unable to integrate successfully the operations of future acquisitions with our operations, and we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of our past and any future acquisitions.Integration of acquisitions with our business and operations is a complex, time consuming, and costly process. Failure to integrate acquisitions successfully with our business and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the desired profitability from past or future acquisitions. In addition, failure to assimilate future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:•operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations;•difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired business, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area;•the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated;•the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired business;•the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation system;•the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;•the failure to realize expected profitability, growth or synergies and cost savings;•properly assessing and managing environmental compliance;•coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems, and facilities; and•coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions.Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions.If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth could be limited.Our results of operations and our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders will depend in part on our ability to make acquisitions that are accretive to our distributable cash flow per unit.We may be unable to make accretive acquisitions for any of the following reasons, among others:•because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them;•because we are unable to raise financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or•because we are outbid by competitors, some of which are substantially larger than us and have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital then we do.If we consummate future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. As we determine the application of our funds and other resources, unitholders will not have an opportunity to evaluate the economics, financial and other relevant information that we will consider.Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.We compete with similar enterprises in each of our areas of operations. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas, gathering and processing and natural gas and NGL pipeline companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas, NGLs, and oil (crude and/or condensate, a lighter crude) than we do. In addition, our customers who are significant producers or consumers of NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Similarly, competitors may establish new connections with pipeline systems that would create additional competition for services that we provide to our customers. Our 26Table of Contents ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors.The natural gas contract compression business is highly competitive, and there are low barriers to entry for individual projects. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct newer or more powerful compressor fleets that would create additional competition for us. In addition, our customers that are significant producers of natural gas and crude oil may purchase and operate their own compressor fleets in lieu of using our natural gas contract compression services.We may also compete with similar enterprises or others for potential future acquisitions. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources, may have the ability to achieve greater synergies with potential acquisitions, or may have other strategic or other interests in potential acquisitions. This competition may result in our inability to successfully bid for desirable acquisitions or may result in our having to pay higher purchase prices for acquisitions in which we are the successful bidder. As we and other companies in our industry expand, the availability of attractive acquisitions may decline over time, limiting our ability for future growth through acquisitions.All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our hedging activities.In performing our functions in our gathering and processing segment, we are a seller of natural gas, NGLs, and oil (crude, and/or condensate, a lighter oil) and are exposed to commodity price risk associated with movements in commodity prices. As a result of the volatility of commodity prices and interest rates, we have executed swap contracts or put options settled against natural gas, some NGL products and West Texas Intermediate crude oil market prices. Some of our risks remain unhedged. We continually monitor our hedging and contract portfolio and expect to adjust our hedge position as conditions warrant. For more information about our risk management activities, read “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Even though our management monitors our hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect, or our hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned.The implementation of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the US Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. While many of the regulations are already in effect, the implementation process is still ongoing, and we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the regulations on our business.In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is finalizing its final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, although certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits provided that various conditions are satisfied. Once finalized, the position limits rule and its companion rule on aggregation may have an impact on our ability to hedge our exposure to certain enumerated commodities. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” To further define the term “swap,” the CFTC has issued several interpretations clarifying whether certain forwards with optionality will remain as forwards or would qualify as options on commodities and therefore swaps. Once finalized, this interpretation may have an impact on our ability to enter into certain forwards. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also will require us, in connection with certain derivatives activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). As the CFTC further designates swap contracts as required to be cleared, the utility of an end-user exception will become even more important. Our ability to rely on the end-user exception may change the profitability trades or the efficiency of our hedging. 27Table of Contents In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements for our over-the-counter derivative contracts with certain regulated entities, which could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to use derivatives to hedge our risks, although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC is also directed generally to prevent price manipulation and fraud in the following two markets: (a) physical commodities traded in interstate commerce, including physical energy and other commodities, as well as (b) financial instruments, such as futures, options and swaps. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has adopted additional anti-market manipulation, anti-fraud and disruptive trading practices regulations that prohibit, among other things, fraud and price manipulation in the physical commodities, futures, options and swaps markets. Should we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to CFTC enforcement action and material penalties, and sanctions.The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and potentially increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders.In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, the European Union and other foreign regulators have adopted and are implementing local reforms generally comparable with the reforms under the Dodd-Frank Act. Implementation and enforcement of these regulatory provisions may reduce our ability to hedge our market risks with non-U.S. counterparties and may make our transactions involving cross-border swaps more expensive and burdensome. Additionally, the lack of regulatory equivalency across jurisdictions may increase compliance costs and make it more difficult to satisfy our regulatory obligations.We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities (resulting from a decline in commodity prices) and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ liquidity and ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us.We do not control the actions of our joint ventures.Our joint ventures have their own governing boards. We exercise some influence over our joint ventures because our approval is required for their most significant decisions, but we do not control the decisions made by these boards. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners. In the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with its business plans. As a result, we may be required to increase our level of commitment to the affected joint venture to give effect to such plans. Differences in views among the joint venture parties may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on significant matters, which could adversely affect the business and operations of the joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.Further, all of our joint ventures may request that we make additional capital contributions to support their capital expenditure programs. If such capital contributions are required, we may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to satisfy our obligations. In the event that we elect not to participate in future capital contributions, our ownership interest in the joint ventures will be diluted. 28Table of Contents Certain of our assets may become subject to regulation. Intrastate transportation of NGLs is largely regulated by the state in which such transportation takes place. Lone Star’s NGL pipeline transports NGLs within the state of Texas and is subject to regulation by the TRRC. This transportation system offers services pursuant to an intrastate transportation tariff on file with the TRRC. Lone Star’s NGL pipeline also commenced the interstate transportation of NGLs in 2013, which is subject to FERC’s jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Both intrastate and interstate NGL transportation services must be provided in a manner that is just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory. The tariff rates established for interstate services were based on a negotiated agreement; however if FERC’s rate making methodologies were imposed, they may, among other things, delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs and subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect revenues and cash flow related to these assets.Our interstate gas transportation operations, including Section 311 service performed by our intrastate pipelines, our sales of gas in interstate commerce, and our shipment of gas on interstate pipelines are subject to FERC regulation; failure to comply with applicable regulation, future changes in regulations or policies, or the establishment of more onerous terms and conditions applicable to natural gas transportation service could adversely affect our business.FERC has broad regulatory authority over the business and operations of interstate natural gas pipelines, such as the pipelines owned by Gulf States and MEP, both of which hold FERC-approved tariffs setting forth cost- based rates, terms and conditions for services to shippers wishing to take interstate transportation service. Under the NGA, rates charged for, and the terms and conditions of service of, interstate natural gas transmission must be just and reasonable, and amounts collected in excess of just and reasonable rates may be subject to refund with interest. In addition, FERC regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service with respect to Section 311 transportation service provided by HPC (through RIGS). FERC has authority to alter its rules, regulations and policies governing service provided by interstate pipelines and intrastate pipelines providing Section 311 services. We cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which Gulf States, MEP or HPC will operate their interstate transportation services or the effect such regulation could have on our businesses or results of operations. In addition, FERC also has broad authority to require compliance with its rules and regulations and to prohibit and penalize manipulative behavior that affects markets. Since our gathering and processing businesses sell natural gas in interstate commerce and ship gas on interstate pipelines, these activities are subject to FERC oversight. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders could result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties or both, as well as increased operational requirements or prohibitions.As limited partnership entities, neither we nor our regulated natural gas pipelines may be able to include a full tax allowance in calculating our costs-of-service for rate-making purposes.Under current policy applied under the NGA and Section 311, FERC permits regulated natural gas pipelines to include, in the cost-of-service used as the basis for calculating the pipeline’s regulated rates, a tax allowance reflecting the actual or potential income tax liability on pipeline income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests, if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis, and the pipeline is required to demonstrate that such potential income tax liability exists. Although FERC’s policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as, or owned by, tax-pass-through entities, application of the policy in individual rate cases still entails rate risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. The specific terms and application of that policy remain subject to future refinement or change by FERC and the courts. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that this policy will not be altered in the future.There are uncertainties in the calculation of the return on equity that FERC will authorize a natural gas pipeline to include in its cost-of-service.An important part of the determination of rates by FERC is the establishment of an authorized return on equity. FERC currently calculates a range of potential returns, based on a discounted cash flow analysis of companies included in a proxy group, and then determines where a pipeline’s risks require it to be placed within this range. FERC policy also currently allows the inclusion of master limited partnerships, or MLPs, in proxy groups used to calculate the appropriate returns on equity under FERC’s discounted cash flow analysis, but FERC limits recognition of certain MLP earnings and allows case-by-case determination by FERC of the appropriateness of any MLP, or indeed any stock corporation, proposed as a member of the pipeline’s proxy group.A change in the level of regulation or the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets or business activities by federal, state or local regulatory agencies could affect our operations and revenues.Our natural gas gathering, processing and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still affects these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. With the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT 2005), FERC has expanded its oversight of natural gas purchasers, natural gas 29Table of Contents sellers, gatherers, intrastate pipelines and shippers on FERC regulated pipelines by imposing new market monitoring and market transparency rules and rules prohibiting manipulative behavior. In addition, EPACT 2005 substantially increased FERC’s penalty authority. In recent years, FERC has adopted rules requiring increased reporting by purchasers and sellers of natural gas and increased transactional reporting requirements for intrastate pipelines. In 2010, FERC also sought formal comments on the applicability of buy-sell prohibitions and capacity release requirements on intrastate pipelines that provide interstate service under NGPA Section 311. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding or how FERC will approach future matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect purchases or sales of natural gas or rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity.In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated natural gas interstate transmission service, on one hand, and intrastate natural gas transmission or federally unregulated natural gas gathering services, on the other hand, is the subject of litigation at FERC and in the courts and of policy discussions at FERC. In such circumstances, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering or our intrastate transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. Such a change could result in increased regulation by FERC, which could adversely affect our business.Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Our gathering pipelines are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in states in which we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, oil or natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. Many states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Our intrastate NGL, crude oil, and condensate pipelines are subject to state common carrier regulations, which require just and reasonable rates, non-discriminatory service, and the filing of tariffs. Our common carrier pipeline tariffs contemplate additional rights to, or superior terms of service for “anchor shippers”, and if these or any other provisions in our common carrier pipeline tariffs are found to be inconsistent with non-discrimination requirements, then we may be required to modify the rates and/or terms of service in our tariffs and may not be able to provide the level of service contemplated in agreements with “anchor shippers”.Any new laws, rules, regulations or orders could result in additional compliance costs and/or requirements, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with any new or existing laws, rules, regulations or orders, we could be subject to administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, or both, as well as increased operational requirements or prohibitions.Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations, the operations of our lessees, and our financial results could be adversely affected.Our operations and the coal mining operations of our lessees are subject to numerous operational risks including:•the inability to acquire necessary permits;•changes in governmental regulation;•adverse weather conditions and natural disasters;•fires and explosions;•equipment failures, damage to our our lessees facilities, and unexpected maintenance problems; and•leaks or losses of hydrocarbons and other pollutants into the environment.These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. or the operations of our lessees. We are not insured against all events that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not insured or fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations, the operations of our lessees, and our financial condition.If the natural gas that we ship on our pipelines fails to meet the specifications of interconnecting interstate pipelines, those interstate pipelines could curtail shipments of our natural gas. The markets to which the shippers on our pipelines ship natural gas include interstate pipelines. These interstate pipelines establish specifications for the natural gas that they are willing to accept, which include requirements such as hydrocarbon dew point, temperature and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. These specifications vary by interstate pipeline. If the total mix of natural gas shipped by the shippers on our pipelines fails to meet the specifications of a particular interstate pipeline, the interstate pipeline may refuse to accept all or a part of the natural gas scheduled for delivery to it. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that gas or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming gas, potentially reducing our throughput volumes or revenues. 30Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair, or preventative or remedial measures, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives related to pipeline safety.The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines and certain gathering lines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to:•perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;•identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;•improve data collection, integration and analysis;•repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and•implement preventive and mitigating actions.In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. We currently estimate that we will incur costs of $3.5 million in 2015 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline, as required by existing DOT regulations. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial.The DOT is continually proposing new pipeline safety rules and issuing pipeline safety advisories that impact our businesses. Additionally, Congress has been engaged in developing more stringent safety laws.The Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 went into effect on January 3, 2012 and requires more stringent oversight of pipelines and increased civil penalties for violations of pipeline safety rules. The law requires numerous studies and/or the development of rules over the next two years covering the expansion of integrity management, use of automatic and remote-controlled shut-off valves, leak detection systems, sufficiency of existing regulation of gathering pipelines, use of excess flow valves, verification of maximum allowable operating pressure, incident notification, and other pipeline-safety related rules. The DOT has sought comments on potential rules to implement this legislation. Any resulting regulatory changes could have a material effect on our operations through more stringent and comprehensive safety regulations, increased costs and higher penalties for the violation of those regulations.We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from our or our lessees’ failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or releases of hazardous materials into the environment.Our operations and the operations of our lessees are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, employee health and safety, permitting and licensing, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us or our lessees to incur substantial costs, penalties, fines and other criminal sanctions, third party claims for personal injury or property damage, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of operations. Certain federal and state environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released.The possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our an our lessees’ compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our operations, the operations of our lessees, and financial condition.Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that we handle in connection with our transportation and midstream services, as well as reduce demand for the coal that our lessees mine, which could adversely affect our coal royalty payments.In December 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act (“CAA”). Accordingly, the EPA adopted regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles, which then triggered CAA construction and operating permit requirements under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permitting programs for certain large stationary sources of greenhouse gases The EPA has also proposed New Source Performance Standards 31Table of Contents (“NSPS”) for carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants, and is in the process of finalizing a proposal for new power plants.In addition, in October 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas sources on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010. In November 2010, the EPA revised its greenhouse gas reporting rule to include onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. Under these rules, reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from such facilities, including many of our facilities, is required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In December 2014, the EPA proposed additional amendments to its greenhouse gas reporting rule, which could add reporting requirements for additional facilities, including gathering and boosting systems.Various pieces of legislation to reduce emissions of, or to create cap and trade programs for, greenhouse gases have been proposed by the U.S. Congress over the past several years, but no proposal has yet passed. More than one-third of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. The United States is actively participating in international discussions that are currently underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration. The regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from our own operations, and it could also adversely affect demand for our transportation, storage and midstream services. It could also lead our lessees’ customers to curtail their operations, switch to other fuels or other alternatives which may, individually or collectively, reduce demand for our lessees’ coal and thereby decrease revenues. As a result of current laws and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electric generators may switch from coal to other fuels that generate fewer greenhouse gas emissions, possibly reducing demand for coal.One consequence of climate change could be increased severity of extreme weather, such as increased hurricanes and floods. If such effects were to occur, our operations and the operations of our lessees could be adversely affected in various ways, including damage to facilities or increased costs for insurance. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. The market for our NGLs and natural gas is generally improved by periods of colder weather and impaired by periods of warmer weather, so any changes in climate could affect the market for the fuels that we produce. Despite the use of the term “global warming” as a shorthand for climate change, some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages. As a result, it is difficult to predict how the market for our fuels could be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it would be expected to have an adverse effect on our business.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas that we gather, process and transport.An increasing percentage of our customers’ natural gas production is being developed from unconventional sources, such as shale formations. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas from shale formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and and a small percentage of chemicals under pressure into to the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. Some states, including those in which we operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, a number of federal agencies, including the EPA and the U.S. Department of Energy, are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing, and have asserted federal regulatory authority over the process. Moreover, Congress from time to time has proposed legislation to more closely and uniformly regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for our customers to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the volume of and natural gas that produce, and could thereby adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs or the inability to retain necessary land use.We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies. Many of these rights-of-way are perpetual in duration; others have terms ranging from five to ten years. Many are subject to rights of reversion in the case of non-utilization for periods ranging from one to three years. In addition, some of our processing facilities are located on leased premises. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or leases or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 32Table of Contents In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas or NGL supplies to our existing pipelines or to capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows and growth opportunities could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our pipelines are gas utilities or common carrier pipelines with the statutory right of eminent domain. A recent Texas Supreme Court decision could severely limit our ability to use eminent domain to acquire right-of-way for common carrier expansion and growth projects, and potentially gas utility projects. Any such limitations could adversely affect our growth opportunities and cash flows.Some portions of our current gathering infrastructure and other assets have been in use for many decades, which may adversely affect our business.Some portions of our assets, including some of our gathering infrastructure, have been in use for many decades. The current age and condition of our assets could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations if the costs of maintaining our facilities exceed current expectations.If our coal lessees do not manage their operations well or experience financial difficulties, their production volumes and our coal royalty revenues could decrease.We depend on our coal lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our coal lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations, including decisions relating to:•the method of mining;•credit review of their customers;•marketing of the coal mined;•coal transportation arrangements;•negotiations with unions;•employee hiring and firing;•employee wages, benefits and other compensation;•permitting;•surety bonding; and•mine closure and reclamation.If our lessees do not manage their operations well, or if they experience financial difficulties, their production could be reduced, which would result in lower coal royalty revenues to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.We could be negatively impacted by any decline in the market demand for coal.The domestic demand for, and price of, the coal produced from our reserves primarily depend on coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry. Consumption by the domestic electric utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric power and other renewable energy sources. In addition, during the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by coal producers or producers of alternate fuels could decrease the demand for or pricing of coal or impact the length of term of coal sales contracts, adversely impacting demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalty revenues. Indirect competition from gas-fired plants that are less expensive to construct and easier to permit has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal-fired generation in the near term, particularly for older, less efficient coal-powered generators.The demand for U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates, the demand for foreign-produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market (which is dependent in part on tariff rates on steel), general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments and environmental and other governmental regulations and any other pressures placed on companies that are connected to the emission of greenhouse gases. Historically, global demand for electricity and steel production has decreased during periods of economic downturn. If there is a worsening of foreign and U.S. economic and financial market conditions, and additional tightening of global credit markets, foreign demand for U.S. coal could decline, causing competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices and thereby reducing our coal royalty revenues. 33Table of Contents In addition, federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of the coal our lessees produce. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalty revenues.A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our coal royalty revenues and the value of our coal reserves.During 2014, weaker international and domestic economies, low natural gas prices and mild weather have impacted coal markets and market weakness is expected to continue into 2015. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could have a material adverse effect on our coal lessees’ operations (including mine closures) and on the quantities of coal that may be economically produced from our properties. In addition, because a majority of our coal royalty are derived from coal mined on our properties under leases containing royalty rates based on the higher of a fixed base price or a percentage of the gross sales price, our coal royalty revenues could be reduced by such a decline. Such a decline could also reduce our coal services revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Additionally, volatility in coal prices could make it difficult to estimate with precision the value of our coal reserves. The future state of the global economy, including developments in financial and credit markets and their impact on coal production levels and prices is uncertain. Depending on economic conditions, demand for coal may continue to decline, which could adversely affect production and pricing for coal mined by our lessees, and, consequently, adversely affect the royalty income received by us.We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues and the loss of or reduction in production from any of our major lessees would reduce our coal royalty revenues.We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues. If any of these operators enters bankruptcy or decides to cease operations or significantly reduces its production, our coal royalty revenues would be reduced.A failure on the part of our lessees to make coal royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property or obtain liquidation damages and/or enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek to find a replacement lessee. We may not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we find a replacement lessee, we may not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the outgoing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy or other proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced.Our coal reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal and our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on the future profitability of our coal business.Because our reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal, we have historically expanded our coal operations by adding and developing coal reserves in existing, adjacent and neighboring properties and through acquisitions of additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we are unable to negotiate purchase contracts to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our coal royalty revenues will decline as our coal reserves are eventually depleted. As of December 31, 2014, we owned or controlled approximately 847 million tons of proven or probable coal reserves located in Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, Illinois and New Mexico. We anticipate that these reserves will take over 33 years to deplete, based upon 2014 production volumes. Our current business strategy does not contemplate any additional growth in our coal reserve holdings through acquisitions or investments in our existing market areas. During 2014, our coal reserves located in the San Juan Basin were depleted and the associated royalty revenue ceased.Our coal lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of the minimum coal royalty payments.We do not control our coal lessees’ business operations. Our lessees’ customer supply contracts do not generally require our lessees to satisfy their obligations to their customers with coal mined from our reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, transportation costs and availability and customer coal quality specifications. If a coal lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production under our lease will decrease, and we will receive lower coal royalty revenues. 34Table of Contents Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal mined from our properties.Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make coal produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from coal producers in other parts of the country or increased imports from offshore producers.Our lessees depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to their customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, mechanical failures and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future and impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers, thereby resulting in decreased coal royalty revenues to us.Our lessees’ workforces could become increasingly unionized in the future, which could adversely affect their productivity and thereby reduce our coal royalty revenues.One of our lessees has one mine operated by unionized employees. This mine was our largest mine on the basis of coal production for the year ended December 31, 2014. All of our lessees have workforces that could become increasingly unionized in the future. If some or all of our lessees’ non-unionized operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect their productivity due to an increase in the risk of work stoppages. In addition, our lessees’ operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our lessees’ operations. Any further unionization of our lessees’ employees could adversely affect the stability of production from our coal reserves and reduce our coal royalty revenues.Our coal reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our coal reserves.Our estimates of our coal reserves may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal our coal lessees may be able to economically recover. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results.These factors and assumptions relate to, among other things:•geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data; •the amount of ultimately recoverable coal in the ground; •the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and •future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the coal reserve data provided by us.Terrorist or cyber-attacks, the threat of terrorist or cyber-attacks, hostilities in the Middle East, or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations.The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, cyber-attacks and the magnitude of the threat of future terrorist or cyber-attacks on the energy transportation industry in general and on us in particular are not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect us in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of natural gas supplies and markets for natural gas and NGLs and the possibility thatinfrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist or cyber-attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. 35Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRUCTUREOur General Partner is owned by ETE, which also controls the general partners of ETP and SXL. This may result in conflicts of interest.ETE owns our General Partner and as a result controls us. ETE owns the general partner of ETP, a publicly traded partnership with which we compete in the natural gas gathering, processing and transportation business. ETE and ETP own the general partner of SXL, who is also in the NGL services business. The directors and officers of our General Partner and its affiliates have fiduciary duties to manage our General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to ETE, its sole owner. At the same time, our General Partner has fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to our unitholders. Therefore, our General Partner’s duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its sole owner. As a result of these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interest or the interests of ETE, ETP, SXL, or their owners or affiliates over the interest of our unitholders.Such conflicts may arise from, among other things, the following:•Decisions by our General Partner regarding the amount and timing of our cash expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional limited partnership units or other securities can affect the amount of incentive distribution payments on our IDRs that we make to ETE;•ETE, ETP, SXL and their affiliates may engage in substantial competition with us;•Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires ETE or its affiliates, including ETP and SXL, to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of the general partners of ETE, ETP and SXL have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of ETE’s, ETP’s and SXL’s members, limited partners and unitholders, as applicable, which may be contrary to our best interests;•Our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of other parties, such as ETE, ETP and SXL and their affiliates, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to our unitholders;•Some of the directors and officers of ETE who provide advice to us also may devote significant time to the business of ETE, ETP and SXL and their affiliates and will be compensated by them for their services;•Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our General Partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;•Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales and other acquisitions, operating expenditures, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of debt, issuances of equity and debt securities and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders;•Our General Partner determines which costs, including allocated overhead costs and costs under the services agreement we have with Service Co. and our operating agreement with ETP, incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and•Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements, such as the services agreement we have with Service Co. and operating agreement with ETP, with any of these entities on our behalf.Specifically, certain conflicts may arise as a result of our pursuing acquisitions or development opportunities that may also be advantageous to ETE, ETP or SXL. If we are limited in our ability to pursue such opportunities, we may not realize any or all of the commercial value of such opportunities. In addition, if ETE, ETP or SXL is allowed access to our information concerning any such opportunity and ETE, ETP or SXL uses this information to pursue the opportunity to our detriment, we may not realize any of the commercial value of this opportunity. In either of these situations, our business, results of operations and the amount of our distributions to our unitholders may be adversely affected. Although we, ETE and ETP have adopted a policy to address these conflicts and to limit the commercially sensitive information that we furnish to ETE, ETP and their affiliates, we cannot assure unitholders that such conflicts will not occur.Our reimbursement of our General Partner’s expenses will reduce our cash available for distribution to common unitholders.Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us. The reimbursement of expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. 36Table of Contents Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our General Partner might otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:•permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as our General Partner. This entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership;•provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a General Partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership;•provides that our General Partner may resolve any conflicts of interest involving us and our General Partner and its affiliates, and any resolution of a conflict of interest by our General Partner that is “fair and reasonable” to us will be deemed approved by all partners, including the Unitholders, and will not constitute a breach of the partnership agreement;•provides that our General Partner may, but is not required, in connection with its resolution of a conflict of interest, to seek “special approval” of such resolution by appointing a conflicts committee of the General Partner’s board of directors composed of two or more independent directors to consider such conflicts of interest and to recommend action to the board of directors, and any resolution of the conflict of interest by the conflicts committee shall be conclusively deemed “fair and reasonable” to us;•provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our General Partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our General Partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and•provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the General Partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct.Any unitholder is bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including those discussed above.Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its directors.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our General Partner or its Board of Directors and have no right to elect our General Partner or its Board of Directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board of Directors of our General Partner is chosen by the members of our General Partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they will have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our General Partner without its consent.Our unitholders may be unable to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own a substantial number of common units and Class F units. A vote of the holders of at least 66.67% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of February 19, 2015, affiliates of our General Partner owned 21.5% of our outstanding common units.Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of those unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units or Series A Preferred Units.Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership 37Table of Contents agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management.Control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.Our General Partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the partners of our General Partner from transferring their ownership in our General Partner to a third party. The new partners of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our General Partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers of our General Partner.We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without unitholders’ approval, which would dilute the ownership interest of existing unitholders.Our General Partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;•the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of our common units may decline.Our General Partner may, in its sole discretion, approve the issuance of partnership securities and specify the terms of such partnership securities.Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our General Partner has the ability, in its sole discretion and without the approval of the Unitholders, to approve the issuance of securities by the Partnership at any time and to specify the terms and conditions of such securities. The securities authorized to be issued may be issued in one or more classes or series, with such designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties (which may be senior to existing classes and series of partnership securities), as shall be determined by our General Partner, including:•the right to share in Partnership’s profits and losses;•the right to share in the Partnership’s distributions;•the rights upon dissolution and liquidation of the Partnership;•whether, and the terms upon which, the Partnership may redeem the securities;•whether the securities will be issued, evidenced by certificates and assigned or transferred; and •the right, if any, of the security to vote on matters relating to the Partnership, including matters relating to the relative rights, preferences and privileges of such security.Please see “—We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without unitholders’ approval, which would dilute the ownership interest of existing unitholders.” above.Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation (which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us) to acquire all, but not less than all, of our common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of February 19, 2015, affiliates of our General Partner owned 21.5% of the total number of our outstanding common units.Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business.Under Delaware law, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our General Partner or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business.Our General Partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our General Partner. Our partnership agreement allows the general partner to incur obligations on our behalf that are expressly non-recourse to the general partner. Our General 38Table of Contents Partner has entered into such limited recourse obligations in most instances involving payment liability and intends to do so in the future.In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. Additionally, we are not able to control the amounts of cash that our joint ventures may distribute to us.We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the partnership interests and the equity in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make required payments on our debt obligations and distributions on our common units depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes and applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to pay the principal amount at maturity of our debt obligations, to repurchase our debt obligations upon the occurrence of a change of control or make distributions on our common units, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as a refinancing of our debt obligations or borrowing funds to make distributions on our common units. We cannot assure unitholders that we would be able to borrow funds to make distributions on our common units.Additionally, the ability of our joint ventures to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the terms of each such entity’s partnership or limited liability company agreement, as applicable, and any debt instruments entered into by such entity as well as applicable state partnership or limited liability company laws, as applicable, and other laws and regulations. We do not control the amounts of cash that our joint ventures may distribute to us. The credit and risk profile of our General Partner and its owners could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile.The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner and of ETE as the indirect owner of our General Partner, may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a publicly traded limited partnership due to the significant influence of our General Partner and ETE over our business activities, including our cash distributions, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our General Partner and ETE, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from us to service their indebtedness.ETE has significant indebtedness outstanding and is dependent principally on the cash distributions from its general and limited partner interests in us and ETP to service such indebtedness. Any distributions by us to ETE will be made only after satisfying our then current obligations to our creditors. Although we have taken certain steps in our organizational structure, financial reporting and contractual relationships to reflect the separateness of us and our General Partner from the entities that control our General Partner (ETE and its general partner), our credit ratings and business risk profile could be adversely affected if the ratings and risk profiles of such entities were viewed as substantially lower or riskier than ours.TAX RISKS TO OUR UNITHOLDERSOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states or local entities. If the IRS treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state or local tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for payment for distributions on our common units.If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our common unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the units.Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value 39Table of Contents of an investment in our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay a Texas margin tax. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, and, if applicable, by any other state, will reduce our cash available for distribution to our common unitholders.Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be reduced to reflect the impact of that law on us.A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you.The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us.Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from that income.Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be more or less than expected.If a unitholder sells his common units, he will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income he was allocated for a common unit, which decreased his tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to him if the common unit is sold at a price greater than his tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than his original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells his common units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash he receives from the sale.Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, he should consult his tax advisor before investing in our common units.We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax deductions available to a unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax deductions or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder’s tax returns. 40Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. However, recently proposed Treasury Regulations provide a safe harbor for publicly traded partnerships pursuant to which a similar monthly convention is allowed. Existing publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations; however they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. Accordingly, if the IRS were to challenge our method of allocating income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees, or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.We have adopted certain valuation and allocation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deductions between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders.In addition, for purposes of determining the amount of the unrealized gain or loss to be allocated to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner, we will reduce the fair market value of our property (to the extent of any unrealized income or gain in our property that has not previously been reflected in the capital accounts) to reflect the incremental share of such fair market value that would be attributable to the holders of our outstanding convertible redeemable preferred units if all of such convertible redeemable preferred units were converted into common units as of such date. Consequently, a holder of common units may be allocated less unrealized gain in connection with an adjustment of the capital accounts than such holder would have been allocated if there were no outstanding convertible redeemable preferred units. Following the conversion of our convertible redeemable preferred units into common units, items of gross income and gain (or gross loss and deduction) will be specially allocated to the holders of such common units to reflect differences between the capital accounts maintained with respect to such convertible redeemable preferred units and the capital accounts maintained with respect to common units. This method of maintaining capital accounts and allocating income, gain, loss and deduction with respect to the convertible redeemable preferred units is intended to comply with proposed Treasury Regulations. However, these proposed Treasury Regulations are not legally binding and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. Accordingly, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 41Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been reached, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Although a termination likely will cause our unitholders to realize an increased amount of taxable income as a percentage of the cash distributed to them, we anticipate that the ratio of taxable income to distributions for future years will return to levels commensurate with our prior tax periods. However, any future termination of our partnership could have similar consequences. Additionally, in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. The position that there was a partnership termination does not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes; however, we are treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to prevail that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminates requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years.You may be subject to state and local taxes and tax return filing requirements.In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and do business in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Louisiana, West Virginia, Arkansas, Colorado, Alabama, California, Mississippi, New Mexico, Utah and Pennsylvania. Each of these states, other than Texas, currently imposes a personal income tax as well as an income tax on corporations and other entities. Texas imposes a margin tax on corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships and limited liability companies. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns required as a result of being a unitholder.RISKS RELATED TO OUR PROPOSED MERGER WITH ETPWe and ETP are subject to contractual restrictions while the merger is pending, which could materially and adversely affect each party’s business and operations, and, pending the completion of the transaction, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.Under the terms of our merger agreement with ETP, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies without first obtaining consent from ETP, including our ability in certain cases to enter into contracts, incur capital expenditures or grow our business. The merger agreement also restricts our ability to solicit, initiate or encourage alternative acquisition proposals with any third party and may deter a potential acquirer from proposing an alternative transaction or may limit our ability to pursue any such proposal. Such limitations could negatively affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the proposed transaction. Furthermore, the process of planning to integrate two businesses and organizations for the post-merger period can divert management attention and resources and could ultimately have an adverse effect on us.In connection with the pending merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the transaction, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common units, regardless of whether the transaction is completed.We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the merger.Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on our employees may have an adverse effect on us and the combined organization. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined organization. In addition, we may have to provide additional compensation in order to retain employees. If our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees 42Table of Contents of the combined organization, the combined organization’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced. Also, if we fail to complete the merger, it may be difficult and expensive to recruit and hire replacements for such employees.We will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the merger.We expect to incur a number of non-recurring merger-related costs associated with completing the merger, combining the operations of the two companies, and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and ETP’s businesses. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. Thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all.Failure to successfully combine our and ETP’s businesses in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined organization, and, consequently, the value of the ETP common units that our unitholders receive as the merger consideration.The success of the proposed merger will depend, in part, on the ability of ETP to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our and ETP’s businesses. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined organization is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger.Failure to complete the merger, or significant delays in completing the merger, could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results.Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the merger by our unitholders or governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger, it could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following:•liability for damages to ETP under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement;•negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of our common units due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed;•having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger, including a termination fee of $450 million; and•the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us.Lawsuits have been filed against us, our General Partner, our General Partner’s board of directors, ETP, ETP GP. and ETE challenging the merger, and any injunctive relief or adverse judgment for monetary damages could prevent the merger from occurring or could have a material adverse effect on us, ETP or the combined company following the merger.The Partnership, the General Partner, the directors of the General Partner, ETP, ETP GP, and ETE are named defendants in purported class actions and derivative petitions brought by purported Partnership unitholders in Dallas County, Texas, generally alleging claims of breach of duties under the partnership agreement, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in connection with the merger transactions, and aiding and abetting arising out of the defendants’ pursuit of the merger by way of an allegedly conflicted and unfair process. Similar lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek to enjoin the defendants from proceeding with or consummating the merger and, to the extent that the merger is implemented before relief is granted, plaintiffs seek to have the merger rescinded. Plaintiffs also seek money damages and attorneys’ fees. One of the conditions to the completion of the merger is that no order, decree, or injunction of any court or agency of competent jurisdiction shall be in effect, and no law shall have been enacted or adopted, that enjoins, prohibits, or makes illegal consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. A preliminary injunction could delay or jeopardize the completion of the merger, and an adverse judgment granting permanent injunctive relief could indefinitely enjoin completion of the merger. An adverse judgment for rescission or for monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on us, ETP or the combined company following the merger. 43Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.