D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected adversely by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks and you might lose all or part of your investment in our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Business If the Google AdSense for Search program is terminated or significantly changed by Google, we would be forced to immediately seek an alternative keyword search provider, in which case we would be susceptible to a certain transition period during which we may experience a material reduction in our search generated revenues and, possibly a long-term decrease in search generated revenues and, in turn, an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business is very dependent on keyword advertisement, currently utilizing primarily the Google AdSense program, pursuant to which we receive a portion of the amount paid by advertisers to Google for the activity performed through the Company’s applications. This dependence continues to grow and we obtained approximately 68% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 from this venue, a percentage which is growing. On July 1, 2008, we entered into an agreement with Google relating to the AdSense program for a one year term. This amendment was primarily to add our HiYo product to our collaboration with Google. On July 1, 2009 we amended and extended the agreement for two years. The agreement may be terminated by either side after one year with 90 days notice. In addition, Google may amend the agreement and has other limited termination rights. We have been told that Google may alter its guidelines with respect to homepage resets and default search resets to Google services when providing downloadable applications on which we are heavily dependent; and consequently may terminate our current agreement, and renew it under different terms, effective as of July 1, 2010. If this agreement is terminated, substantial ly amended, or not renewed on favorable terms, we would be forced to seek an alternative keyword search provider. There are very few companies in the market that provide Internet ad services similar to those provided by Google. Google is the most dominant player in this market and other companies in the market do not have as much coverage with sponsored links. If we fail to quickly locate, negotiate and finalize alternative arrangements, or if the alternatives do not provide for terms that are as favorable as those provided for by the AdSense program, or if the alternative arrangement will not attract the same traffic as the traffic attracted by the Google AdSense program, or if the termination by Google effects our ability to contract other providers, we may experience a material reduction in our revenues and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The failure of IncrediMail to retain existing, or attract new users, as well as generate traffic to it s search properties, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 We are increasingly relying on the ability to offer our search properties to users of our software products and subsequently retain them. Should this offering be blocked, constrained or made redundant, by the providers of the underlying platform, our ability to generate revenues from search could be significantly reduced. Over 73% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were generated from the acceptance and subsequent retention of our search properties by the users of our software products. The market for offering and retaining these search properties is very competitive. In addition, some companies offer a browser without a homepage, which is one of our main search properties. We have been told that Google may alter its guidelines with respect to homepage resets and default search resets to Google services when providing downloadable applications. Should Google or the other companies providing the internet browsers effectively restrict, discourage, or otherwise hamper other companies from offering or changing the search properties, or those providing browsers without a homepage increase their market share, there would be a material adverse affect on our search generating revenue model and our financial results. The generation of revenues from searches has become subject to fierce competition. We obtain a significant portion of our revenues from searches made through our homepage and other search properties. If we cannot compete effectively in this market, our revenues are likely to decline. We obtain a significant and growing portion of our revenues from searches made through the Company's home page (MyStart), as well as offering other search properties. We therefore are constantly looking for ways to convince our users to make MyStart their homepage and accept the other search properties offered. There are a growing number of companies that generate an increasing amount of their revenues from searches, some of them with a more significant presence than ours and with greater capability to offer substantially more content. In addition, with competition growing, even the larger and in the past more conservative companies, (such as Google, Microsoft and other s), have become increasingly aggressive in their search service offering. Therefore, our ability to attract new users to install IncrediMail’s home page, and retaining existing users, could suffer, preventing or delaying us in increasing our revenues, or even cause them to decrease. If we are unable to continually enhance our existing products and develop new products that achieve widespread market acceptance, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, our competitive position may be harmed and we may be unable to generate additional revenues. We believe that the number of downloads of our free products indicates that many consumers are interested in having a customized and entertaining email or instant messaging experience. Our future revenue and profit growth will depend, in part, on increasing the number of downloads and acceptance of the search properties offered with them, and subsequently, the percentage of registered or active users of our free product who become actual purchasers of our products and services, as well as making our products and services attractive to new users. In order to induce those consumers to use our products, accept the search properties offered, and subsequently, to a certain extent, purchase or license our products, we must continually enhance our existing products by offering additional features and content and we must continue to introduce novel products. The enhancement of existing products and the development and commercialization of new products can be very complex. Software product development and commercialization depends upon a number of factors, including: ● accurate prediction of market requirements, market preferences and content trends and evolving standards; ● development of advanced technologies and capabilities; ● timely completion and introduction of new product designs and features that incorporate market requirements and preferences; ● our ability to recruit and retain highly qualified personnel; ● our ability to market our new products; and ● market acceptance of the enhanced and new products. We may be unable to enhance our existing products or to develop new products. Furthermore, we may not develop or introduce new products or product enhancements in time to take advantage of market opportunities or achieve a significant or substantial level of acceptance in new or existing markets. If we fail to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, our competitive position may be harmed and we may be unable to generate substantial revenues. 6 If we are unable to establish and increase market acceptance of our products, we will not expand our business and our revenues could decline. Our basic software products are currently supplied to our customers free of charge. We will be able to increase product revenues only if we can create and maintain a substantial market demand for our products, including acceptance of the search properties offered with them, and to a certain extent our enhanced software products, for which we currently charge a one-time license, or subscription fee. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on market demand for software programs that create a customized and entertaining email, instant messaging or computer desktop experience of the kind provided by our products. For instance, the fact that many email users have multiple email clients and accounts, many of which are likely provided to them free of charge by large Internet and software companies positively affects the potential market demand for our enhanced email software products. On the other hand, the fact that many instant messaging software providers offer a graphic and entertaining user experience negatively affects the potential market demand for our enhanced instant messaging software product. The rate of adoption and acceptance of our products may be affected adversely by changing consumer preferences, product obsolescence, tec hnological change, market competition, development and acceptance of non-Internet mediums of communication and our products’ quality and novelty. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Our primary user base is composed of individual consumers. The current overall weakness in the U.S. and European economies have resulted in considerable negative pressure on consumer spending and have impacted consumers in our territories in ways that could negatively affect our business. In the event the current economic downturn in the United States and Europe continues or worsens, our current and potential software license subscribers may be unable or unwilling to purchase our licensing services. This would also have a negative impact on consumer internet spending and search generated revenues. A reduction in the purchasing of our licensing services, consumer internet spending and search generated revenues have had a negative impact in the past, and may possibly have a greater negative impact in the future, on our sales and revenue genera tion, margins and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continuing “viral growth” could be adversely affected if we do not increase the number of our registered users or if users stop using our software. To date, we have relied primarily on “viral growth” to increase our user base. This method is of relatively low cost, however its effectiveness has been decreasing. Other marketing methods, while effective, are far more costly. If users of our products stop, reduce, or limit their usage, our viral growth will be diminished because they will no longer be forwarding links to our site via their emails, and our market share and revenues may decrease. Our historical experience with usage of our products indicates that usage of products declines rapidly, currently estimated to be up to six years. Therefore, in order to induce our existing users to continue to use our products, we must continuously enhance our existing products and periodically develop new ones. If we cannot offer such products, because of lack of resources, competition or other reasons described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, our distribution, revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. The market for email software products and services is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete effectively, our revenues will decline and we will be unable to gain or retain market share. Our products compete in the market for email software products and services that aim to offer a customized and entertaining email experience for consumers, including features such as graphic email notifiers, software skins, email backgrounds and multimedia content. Our main competitors among specialized providers of email services offer the following products: FunWeb Products™, and WikMail, which incorporate special features that provide a personalized email experience. In addition, our products also face competition from general email software programs offered to the private market by large Internet and software companies, such as AOL9 by America Online, Inc., Thunderbird® by Mozilla Corporation and Outlook Expre ss and WLM 2009 by Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT), some of which may also incorporate certain special features that provide a personalized email experience. Many of the large Internet and software companies offer their email software programs free of charge. Competition with these products could result in fewer downloads of our product, reduced prices and margins, fewer purchases of our products and services and loss of market share. 7 Many of our competitors have more established brands, products and customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts even if they may not offer a customized and entertaining email experience similar to IncrediMail®. For example, consumers may choose to receive an extensive package of Internet and email services from a more dominant and recognized company, such as Microsoft Corporation (Outlook Express) or America Online, Inc. (AOL®). If we are unable to achieve contin ued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively. In addition, many of our other current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development and sales and marketing resources than we have. These competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop new technologies, products or features that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Competition” for additional discussion of our competitive market. We face significant competition from large-scale web-based email providers, principally Google, Yahoo and Microsoft. Our products also compete in the market for web-based email software products and services, such as Google's Gmail, Yahoo! Mail and Microsoft's Hotmail. The web based email market is characterized with significant competition, changing technologies and evolving products and services enhancements. Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft are each offering a web-based e-mail service in addition to the many other services they provide, such as desktop search, local search, instant messaging, photos, maps, video sharing, mobile applications and so on. We expect these competitors to increasingly use their financial and engineering resources to compete with our client-based e-mail service, and if we are unable to successfully compete with them, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The market for creative instant messaging enrichment tools is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete effectively, we may not be able to generate revenues or achieve significant market share. In May, 2008, we launched HiYoTM, our creative enhancement tool for instant messaging. HiYo is currently available for users of the instant messenger software Windows Live Messenger®, Yahoo! Messenger® and American Online Instant Messaging (AIM®), and we believe HiYo will bring new customers and demographics into the IncrediMail® experience. Our main competitors in this area include SweetIM, Bandoo and SmileyCentral by IAC/InterActiveCorp (Nasdaq: IACI) as well as the built in graphic capabilities, albeit limited, of Windows Live Messenger®, Yahoo! Messenger® and AIM®. Competition with these products could result in increased inve stments in R&D and Marketing expenses as well as fewer downloads and registrations of our product. Many of our competitors have more established brands, products and customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will not be able to compete effectively. In addition, many of our other current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development and sales and marketing resources than we have. These competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop new technologies, products or features that could effectively compete with our product. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Competition” for additional discussion of our competitive market. HiYo is an add-on tool to proprietary instant messaging platforms, which may not always be available to us. While our email client and digital photography products are stand alone software products, connecting to open email providers and digital photograph depositories or data bases, HiYo relies on our ability to add our toolbar to proprietary instant messaging platforms. Such proprietary instant messaging platforms may become unavailable for such add-on use by us, which would result in our inability to continue marketing this product as it is, causing this revenue source to decrease rapidly. 8 The market for wallpapers, screensavers and photograph management tools is highly competitive, and if we cannot compete effectively, we may not be able to generate revenues or achieve significant market share. Our product is a desktop enhancer and offers brand-new graphically enriched ways to view and enjoy personal photos. Our PhotoJoy product focuses on further enhancing the capability for enjoying personal photos. These products that were first introduced in 2006, and subsequently enhanced in 2008, currently compete in the market for wallpapers, screensavers and PC software managing and presenting personal photographs, aiming to offer a creative, personal and entertaining experience for PC users. Our main competitors in these areas include Screensavers.com, Picasa by Google, and webshots© by American Greetings Corp. (NYSE: AM). Competition with these products could require increased investments in R&D and Marketing expenses as well as cause fewer downloads and registrations of our product. Many of our competitors have more established brands, products and customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts even if they may not offer a similar variety, currently free of charge, such as American Greetings Corp. (webshots©). If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will not be able to compete effectively. In addition, many of our other current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development and sales and marketing resources than we have. These competitors could use their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as to develop new technologies, products or features that could effectively compete with our product. Demand for our products could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Competition” for additional discussion of our competitive market. We may use a substantial portion of our invested resources to acquire an unspecified business. These acquisitions could divert our resources, cause dilution to our shareholders and adversely affect our financial results. We may use a portion of our invested resources to acquire complementary products, technologies or businesses. In December 2006, we acquired the assets of a transaction processing company called BizChord Consulting Corporation and, although a relatively small acquisition, in December 2008, we decided to terminate BizChord’s independent activities and restrict its activity to processing the Company’s own transactions. As a result, since the acquisition, we have written off our entire investment. Prior to such acquisition our management had no experience making acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses. Negotiating potential acquisitions or integrating newly-acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns and could be expensive and time-consuming. Acquisitions coul d expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with the business or assets acquired or with entering new markets. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Consequently, we might not effectively integrate any acquired products, technologies or businesses, and might not achieve anticipated revenues or cost benefits. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired product, technology or company, or issuances of equity securities that cause dilution to our existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may incur contingent liability or possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances relating to the acquisition, and we may not have, or may not be able to enforce, adequate remedies in order to protect our Company. If any of these or similar risks relating to acquiring products, technologies or businesses should occur in the futu re on a scale that is larger than the effect of the acquisition described above, our business could be materially harmed. Our investment portfolio may be impaired by disruptions in the financial and credit markets. Our investment portfolio currently consists of securities of US government agencies as well as corporate debt securities, which the Company classified at December 31, 2009 as "available-for-sale" marketable securities or cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2009, we hold approximately $6 million in corporate debt securities and $7 million in securities of US government agencies. Due to significant disruptions in the financial and credit markets in the past, corporate debt securities in our portfolio could be subject to a possible increased risk of default due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other factors affecting the issuers of those securities. In addition, securities in our portfolio are subject to other risks, such as credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the recent market disruptions. We may be required to adjust the carrying value of our investment securities due to a default, lack of liquidity or other event. 9 Any such adjustment which is considered to be other-then-temporary would be recorded in our consolidated statement of operations which could materially adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If we are deemed to be not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, our operating results could be materially affected. We collect and maintain certain information about our customers in our database. Such collection and maintenance of customer information is subject to data protection laws and regulations in Israel, the United States and other countries. A failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in class actions, governmental investigations and orders, and criminal and civil liabilities, which could materially affect our operating results. Although we strive to comply with all applicable regulations and use our best efforts to inform our customers of our business practices prior to any installations of our software, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which in turn could have a material effect on our business. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Government Regulation” for additional discussion of applicable regulations. If there are privacy or security concerns regarding our collection, use and handling of personal information, we could incur substantial expenses. Although we take all reasonable steps to insure the security of personal information, concerns may be expressed, from time to time, about whether our products compromise the privacy or confidentiality of the information of users and others. Concerns about our collection, use, sharing or handling of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Government Regulation” for additional discussion of applicable regulations. We rely on online payment for our products and any limitations imposed on online payment services could increase our costs associated with the collection of payment and could adversely affect our business. Payment for our products is processed online. We engage third parties to process online payment for our products. Credit card companies could change their policies with respect to acceptance of online payments, refunds and charge-backs or in response to any change in government regulations. Any of these changes could result in increased costs for providing online payment services. Furthermore, implementation of an alternative method for collection of payment would entail substantial expenses and may not be feasible for our business. We depend on a third party Internet and telecommunication provider to operate our website. Temporary failure of these services would reduce our revenues and damage our reputation, and securing alternate sources for these services could significantly increase our expenses. We depend on Bezeq International Ltd., a third party provider of Internet and related telecommunication services, including hosting and location facilities, to operate our website. This company may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions in services at the current cost or at all. Such a disruption in services, even temporary, would reduce our revenues from product sales, and possibly even from search, depending on the extent of disruption. While we believe that there are many alternative providers of hosting and other communication services available to us, the costs associated with any transition to a new service provider could be substantial and require us to reengineer our computer systems and telecommunications infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider. This process could be both expensive and time consumin g and could result in lost business both during the transition period and after. Our servers and communications systems could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions. Although we maintain back-up systems for our servers, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, loss of critical data and lost registered users and revenues. We currently rely solely on the Internet as a means to sell our products. Accordingly, if we, or our customers, are unable to utilize the Internet due to a failure of technology or infrastructure, terrorist activity or other reasons, we could lose current or potential customers and revenues. While we have backup systems for most aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. Furthermore, interruptions in our website could materially impede our ability to attract new companies to advertise on our website and to maintain relationships with current advertisers. Difficulties of this kind could damage our reputation, be expensive to r emedy and curtail our growth. 10 Termination of our agreement with Commtouch could result in lost revenues and loss of market share. We launched our anti-spam solution JunkFilter Plus in the third quarter of 2005. This solution has provided a material portion of our revenues. We amended our agreement with Commtouch Ltd., the developer of the anti-spam software development kit, on July 15, 2008 and extended it for two additional years. If our agreement with Commtouch were to terminate, we would be required to redevelop our JunkFilter Plus anti-spam product, or retain a new provider of a development kit, and, as a result we would likely suffer lost revenues and the potential loss of market share. In addition, to the extent Commtouch is unable to continue and support the service, and we are u nsuccessful in providing an equivalent alternative, we may have to refund some of the outstanding subscription fees. Our products operate in a variety of computer configurations and could contain undetected errors or defects that could result in product failures, lost revenues and loss of market share. Our software may contain undetected errors, failures or defects, especially when the products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our customers’ computer environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. Therefore, there could be errors or failures in our products. In addition, despite testing by us and beta testing by some of our registered users, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial sales. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures and defects in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and have likely experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period required to co rrect these errors. Errors, failures or defects in products released by us could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position or claims by customers. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expense and could cause interruptions. Due to our evolving business model and rapid changes in the Internet, we may not be able to predict our future performance or continue our revenue growth or profitability. Since beginning operations in 2000, we have introduced new products and initiatives almost every year, some of which have been unsuccessful. Consequently, we have a limited history of ongoing operations from which to predict our future performance. The future viability of our business will depend on our ability to increase product sales, introduce new products appealing to the Internet market, increase search generated, affiliate and advertising revenues, exploit our brand name and control our costs, which we may be unable to do. As a result, we may not be able to continue our revenue growth or profitability. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which could limit our ability to increase our sales and control our costs. We have been experiencing significant growth in the scope of our operations. This growth, required in order to achieve our business objectives, has placed increased demands on our management and on our operational resources. This growth has, and continues to increase the challenges involved in: ● implementing appropriate operational and financial systems and controls; ● expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities; and ● maintaining the commitment of our employees. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, we will not experience our projected growth and our financial results will suffer. A decline in market acceptance for Microsoft technologies on which our products rely could have a material adverse affect on us. Our products currently run on Microsoft Windows operating systems. Our web client interfaces are supported on certain browsers which run on Windows, Mac and Linux. A decline in market acceptance for Microsoft technologies or the increased acceptance of other server technologies could cause us to incur significant development costs and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our current products. Although we believe that Microsoft technologies will continue to be widely used by businesses, we cannot assure you that businesses will adopt these technologies as anticipated or will not in the future migrate to other computing technologies that we do not currently support. In addition, our products and technologies must continue to be compatible with new developments in Microsoft technologies. We cannot assure you that we can maintain such compatibility or that we will not incur significant expenses in connection therewith. 11 More individuals are using non-PC devices to access the Internet, and our online services may not be accepted by such users. The number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other then personal computers, such as mobile phones, has increased dramatically. Our products were designed for rich, graphic environments such as those available on desktop and laptop computers. The lower resolution, often slower communication, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices currently available may make the use of our products through these devices difficult. If consumers find our products difficult to access, we may fail to capture a sufficient share of an increasingly important portion of the market for online services and may fail to attract advertisers and web traffic. Exchange rate fluctuations may decrease our earnings if we are not able to hedge our currency exchange risks effectively. A majority of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, most of our costs, mainly personnel expenses, are incurred in New Israeli Shekels (NIS). Inflation in Israel may have the effect of increasing the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel. If the U.S. dollar declines in value in relation to the New Israeli Shekel, it will become more expensive for us to fund our operations in Israel. A revaluation of one percent of the NIS as compared to the U.S. dollar could reduce our income before taxes by approximately $0.1 million. During 2007 the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the New Israeli Shekel decreased, as well as in the first half of 2008. This trend reversed in the second half of 2008 and fluctuated significantly through 2009. In addition, a significant portion of our sales is in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2009, approximately 14% of our revenue was in these currencies. To the extent such sales are not immediately exchanged for US dollars, we bear a foreign currency fluctuation risk. As of December 31, 2009, we had a net foreign currency net asset of approximately $1.6 million and our total foreign exchange income was approximately $12 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, in territories where our prices are based on local currencies, fluctuations in the dollar exchange rate could affect our gross profit margin. To assist us in hedging the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we have contracted a consultant proficient in this area, and are implementing his proposals. However, due to the market conditions, volatil ity and other factors, his proposals occasionally prove to be ineffective or harmful, and the implementation of his proposals ineffective. We may incur losses from unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. See “Item 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risks” for further discussion of the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. A loss of the services of our senior management and other key personnel could adversely affect execution of our business strategy. We depend on the continued services of our senior management, particularly Ofer Adler, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Product Officer and co-founder. Our business and operations to date have been mainly implemented under the direction of our current senior management. The loss of the services of these personnel could create a gap in management and could result in the loss of management and technical expertise necessary for us to execute our business strategy and thereby adversely affect execution of our business strategy. Although we have obtained “key person” life insurance on the life of Ofer Adler in the amount of $1.5 million, we do not expect to obtain “key person” life insurance with respect to our other officers. Further, our ability to execute our business strategy also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified and skilled technical and creative personnel and skilled management, marketing and sales personnel. If we cannot attract and retain additional key employees or lose one or more of our current key employees, our ability to develop or market our products could be adversely affected. See “Item 6 Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and, therefore, may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with all of our professional employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise that our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial informati on or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. 12 Our international operations involve special risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of our management. We derive and expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers outside United States. Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including risks with respect to: ● potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than those of the United States; ● costs and delays associated with translating and supporting our products in multiple languages; ● foreign exchange rate fluctuations and economic instability, such as higher interest rates and inflation, which could make our products more expensive in those countries; ● costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations; ● restrictive governmental actions such as trade restrictions; ● limitations on the transfer and repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; ● compliance with different consumer and data protection laws and restrictions on pricing or discounts; ● lower levels of adoption or use of the Internet and other technologies vital to our business and the lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; ● lower levels of consumer spending on a per capita basis and fewer opportunities for growth in certain foreign market segments compared to the United States; ● lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment risk; ● changes in domestic and international tax regulations; and ● geopolitical events, including war and terrorism. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Unlawful copying of our products or other third party violations of existing legal protections or reductions in the legal protection for intellectual property rights of software developers or use of open source software could adversely affect our revenue. The software products that we sell incorporate a technology that reduces the ability of third parties to copy the software without having paid for it. Unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights represents a loss of potential revenue to us, which could be more significant in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Continued educational and enforcement efforts may not affect revenue positively and further deterioration in compliance with existing legal protections or reductions in the legal protection for intellectual property rights of software developers could adversely affect our revenue. In addition, certain of our products or services may now or in the future incorporate open source software, which are typically distributed “as-is” without warranties, such as warranties of performance or ownership or indemnities against intellectual property infringement claims. Moreover, to the extent that we incorporate open source software into our products or services, (although we do not currently intend to do so), the license for such open source software may obligate us, among other things, to pass on to our licensees without charge the rights to use, copy, modify and redistribute the underlying software source code, both with respect to the original open source code and any modifications to such code created by us. 13 If we fail to detect and stop misrepresentations of our site and products, or for some reason are perceived as promoting malware or “spamming”, we could lose the confidence of our customers, or software could be blocked by software or utilities designed to detect such practices, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of domains using our brand names (such as "IncrediMail") in various ways, and attracting in this manner our potential or existing users. Many times these domains are engaged with fraudulent or spam activities and using our brand names can result in damaging our reputation and losing our clients' confidence in our products. In addition, if we or our products were for some reason perceived as promoting “malware or “spamming”, our software could be blocked by software or utilities designed to detect such practices. If we are unable to detect and terminate effectively this misrepresentation activity of others or the way we and our products are perceived, we may lose users and our ability to produce revenues will be harmed. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our ability to execute our business strategy and compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. In 2003, we submitted national phase patent applications in the United States, the European Community and Israel with respect to certain processes that we employ in our products. These applications benefited from a priority date of a provisional application filed in the year 2000. One patent has been issued in the United States under these applications to date. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. We cannot be certain that our patents will be upheld as valid and enforceable or prevent the development of compet itive products. Consequently, competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our sales and diminish our ability to compete. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect us from our competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected and we could be precluded from operating all or a portion of our business. In addition, we exploit our brand name Incredi by applying it to products offered through collaborations with third parties. We have registered INCREDIMAIL as a trademark only in the United States. Our ownership and use of the Incredi brand name may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties, in which case our ability to generate revenues from its exploitation will suffer. We have registered, or have rights to, various domain names relating to our brand, including incredimail.com, incredidate.com, incredigames.com, magentic.com, photojoy.com and hiyo.com. If we fail to maintain, or to enforce our rights to these registrations, it will be difficult for us to implement our strategy to increase recognition of our brand. Third parties have registered domain names similar to ours and if such parties engage in a business that may be harmful to our reputation or confusing to our customers, our revenue may decline and we may incur additional expenses in maintaining our brand. We rely on a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of inventions covenants as appropriate, with our employees and consultants, to protect and otherwise seek to control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to protect our property from unauthorized disclosure, third-party infringement or misappropriation. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality covenants with our employees, consultants and third parties. However, these parties may breach these covenants and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Also, others may learn of our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we sell our products may not protect our int ellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Israel. See “Item 4.B Business Overview —Intellectual Property.” Third party claims of infringement or other claims against us could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses, or engage in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to execute our business strategy. The appeal of our products is largely the result of the graphics, sound and multimedia content that we incorporate in our products. We enter into licensing arrangements with third parties for these uses. However, other third parties may from time to time claim that our current or future use of content, sound and graphics infringe their intellectual property rights, and seek to prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products. For example, in 2002 and again in 2004, a third party had contacted us to demand that we remove certain “Smiley” graphics from our website, claiming that he had registered a trademark with respect to these graphics and that our use infringed his rights. We believe this claim to be without any merit and intend to vigorously defend any suit filed against us in this matter. 14 If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights that we are allegedly infringing, may infringe or desire to use. Although holders of these types of intellectual property rights often offer these licenses, we cannot assure you that licenses will be offered or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a license for key intellectual property rights from a third party for technology or content, sound or graphic used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the development and sale of our products. Alternatively, we could be required to expend significant resources to re-design our products or develop non-infringing technology. If we are unable to re-design our products or develop non-infringing technology, our revenues could decre ase and we may not be able to execute our business strategy. We may become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third-party’s intellectual property rights, but also to protect our own intellectual property rights. If we do not prevail in any third-party action for infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages and be prohibited from using intellectual property essential to our products. We may also become involved in litigation in connection with the brand name rights associated with our Company name or the names of our products. We do not know whether others will assert that our Company name or brand name infringes their trademark rights. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe names held by others. If we have to change the name of our Company or products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. Any lawsuit, regardless of its merit, would likely be time-consuming, expensive to resolve and require additional management time and attention. Risks Related to Our Industry The Internet as a medium for commerce and communication is subject to uncertainty and there could be a shift in communication platforms away from email. The Internet and electronic communication industry is rapidly evolving, as new means for electronic communication are offered to the public. Our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent upon the continued predominance of email as a means of electronic communication and upon the continued use of the Internet. Although email software programs and services and instant messaging programs and services currently enjoy a large market, the development and consumer acceptance of other means of electronic communication, such as text messaging over phone networks, chat-boards, blogs and web-based social networks, could result in a substantial decrease in the size of this market, in which case our revenues could decrease and our products could become obsolete. There is direct competition between web-based software and downloaded software. There are different advantages and disadvantages to web-based software as compared to downloaded software. Currently, web-based software seems to be growing at a faster rate than downloaded software. Our business is currently reliant on the continued prevalence of downloaded software. If there were to be a more dramatic shift to web-based software this could cause a decrease in the distribution of our software and subsequently in our revenues. The Internet and Internet companies are providing an increasing number of services for free. The internet and internet based companies are providing an increasing number of services for free, including email clients and anti-spam software and services. A substantial part of our revenues comes from selling software products and services, currently accounting for approximately 25% of our revenues. We attribute part of the decline in our revenues from the sale of products and services to this trend. Should this trend accelerate or even continue for a prolonged period, this would cause our revenues from product sales and services to decrease even more. 15 New laws and regulations applicable to e-commerce, Internet advertising, privacy and data collection, and uncertainties regarding the application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could harm our business. Our business is conducted through the Internet and therefore, among other things, we are also subject to the laws and regulations that apply to e-commerce. These laws and regulations are becoming more prevalent in the United States, Israel and elsewhere and may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, electronic contracts and other communications, Internet advertising, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Many areas of the law affecting the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It is difficult to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy and data protection, libel, data security and taxation, apply to the Internet and our business. New laws and regulations may seek to impose additional burdens on companies conducting business over the Internet. We are unable to predict the nature of the limitations that may be imposed. For example, legislation has been enacted to regulate the use of “cookie” technology. Upon installation of our software, certain cookies generated by us and our advertisers are placed on our customers’ computers. It has been argued that Internet protocol addresses and cookies are intrinsically personally identifiable information that is subject to privacy standards. We cannot assure you that our current policies and procedures would meet these restrictive standards. In addition, technology is changing constantly and data security regulations and standards are in a state of flux. Changes in law or regulations may require that we materially change the way we do business. For example, we may be required to implement physical, administrative and technological security measures different from those we have now, such as different data access controls or encryption technology. We may incur substantial expenses in implementing such security measures. In addition, although current decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet, the U.S. Congress and a number of states have been considering or have adopted various initiatives that could limit or supersede these decisions. If any of these initiatives result in a reversal of the Court’s current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes on our U.S. sales. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. The EU has already enacted legislation regarding Value Added Tax imposed on certain software sold by companies outside the EU to consumers in the EU over the Internet. This legislation could be interpreted to include other parts of the Company’s business not yet accrued for by the Company, causing additional significant tax exposure, or alternatively, reduce the competitiveness of the Company’s pricing of its products. The cost of compliance with taxation, consumer and privacy related regulations could be material and we may not be able to comply with the applicable regulations in a timely or cost-effective manner. In response to evolving legal requirements, we may be compelled to change our business model and practices, which could reduce our sales, and we may not be able to replace the revenues lost as a consequence of the change. These changes could also require us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability and require increased time and attention of our management. See “Item 4.B Business Overview — Government Regulation” for additional discussion of applicable regulations affecting our Company. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Political, economic and military instability in the Middle East may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. Our principal executive offices are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in the Middle East may affect our business directly. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. During the winter of 2008, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, a militia group and political party operating in the Gaza Strip, and during the summer of 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party. These conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading par tners could affect adversely our operations. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to civil unrest and Palestinian terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, since October 2000. Tension among the different Palestinian factions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Ongoing and revived hostilities and the attempts to resolve the conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbors often results in political instability that affects the Israeli capital markets and can cause volatility in interest rates, exchange rates and stock market quotes. These or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and product development and cause our sales to decrease. Furthermore, several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and, although the impact of these restrictions is not as important for a company such as ours that sells its products throug h the Internet, it may nevertheless have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our male employees in Israel, including members of senior management, are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually until they reach age 48 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and our directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and most of our directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The tax benefits available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. We have generated income and therefore, are able to take advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” and "Beneficiary Enterprise" status of our facilities in Israel, albeit, since instituting our dividend policy, to a limited extent. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the "Investment Law"), and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval. If we fail to meet the required conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we have received with interest and adjustment for change in Israeli consumer price index. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. Effective April 1, 2005, the Investment Law was amended. As a result, the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits as an Approved Enterprise were revised. No assurance can be given that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. As a result of the amendment and recent interpretations, if and when we were to discontinue our policy for distributing dividends, tax-exempt income generated under the provisions of the new law will subject us to taxes upon distribution or liquidation and we may be required to record deferred tax liability with respect to such tax-exempt income, possibly affecting our results in the future. See “Item 10.E Taxation — Israeli Taxation — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” for more information about these programs. Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares and their Listing on a Stock Exchange We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements as well as costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market, the provisions of the Israeli Securities Law that apply to dual listed companies (companies that are listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange ("TASE") and another recognized stock exchange) and the provisions of the Israeli Companies Law that apply to public companies. For example, as a public company, we have created additional board committees and are required to have two external directors, pursuant to the Israeli Companies Law. We have also contracted an internal auditor and a consultant for implementation of and compliance with the req uirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. See “Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Overview — General and Administrative Expenses” for a discussion of our increased expenses as a result of being a public company. 17 A small number of existing shareholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares and can exercise significant influence over our actions. As of March 24, 2010, our directors and officers beneficially owned (including shares issuable upon exercise of options exercisable within 60 days of such date) approximately 21.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares in the aggregate. The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests. These shareholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to elect or remove directors, to approve or reject mergers or other business combination transactions, the raising of future capital and the amendment of our articles of association, which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a chang e in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your ordinary shares as part of a sale of our Company. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. See "Item 16.G Corporate Governance." In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. See “Item 10.B Memorandum and Articles of Association — Approval of Related Party Transactions” for additional information concerning this duty. Our shareholders generally may find it dif ficult to comply with the provisions of Israeli law. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our Company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our Company, such as provisions establishing a classified board. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Item 10.B Memorandum and Articles of Association — Approval of Related Party Transactions” and “Item 10.E – Taxation — Israeli Taxation” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our Company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce our stock price. Sales by shareholders of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, our executive officers, directors and certain large shareholders are no longer subject to contractual restrictions on the sale by them of shares, resulting in a substantial number of shares held by them or issuable upon exercise of options currently eligible for sale in the public market. Furthermore, the market price of our ordinary shares could drop significantly if our executive officers, directors, or certain large shareholders sell their shares, or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. 18 Although we have paid dividends in the past, and we expect to pay certain dividends in the future, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report; if we fail to, or to extent we do not, pay dividends then the return on investment will be limited to the value of our stock. We have paid dividends in the past, and have announced a dividend policy for distributing at least 50% of our net income as a dividend. Our ability to distribute dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. Any dividend will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at the time as our board of directors may consider relevant. We may pay dividends in any fiscal year only out of “profits,” as defined by the Israeli Companies Law, unless otherwise authorized by an Israeli court, and provided that the distribution is not reasonably expected to impair our ability to fulfill our outstanding and expected obligations. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. See “Item 8.A Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Policy on Dividend Distribution” for additional information regarding the payment of dividends. U.S. investors in our Company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as “excess distributions.” Under these rules, the excess distribution and any gain would be allocated ratably over the U.S. holder’s holding period for the ordinary shares, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which w e were a passive foreign investment company would be taxed as ordinary income. The amount allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax allocated to such other taxable years. The tax liability with respect to the amount allocated to years prior to the year of the disposition, or “excess distribution,” cannot be offset by any net operating losses. In addition, holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company may not receive a “step-up” in basis on shares acquired from a decedent. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares, as well as the specific application of the “excess distribution” and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see “Item 10.E Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 