ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. In addition to the REIT-related risk factors discussed below, investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties presented under the following captions in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of Part II of this report: “REIT Conversion” and “Factors Influencing Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows,” all of which are incorporated herein by reference. 8 / POTLATCH CORPORATION Table of Contents REIT-RELATED RISK FACTORS If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, income from our timberlands will be subject to taxation at regular corporate rates and we will have reduced funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations, including satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements, on a continuing basis. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will remain qualified as a REIT. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws affecting REITs, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our stockholders or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our stockholders or us. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If in any taxable year we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and • we will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost, unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions. As a result, net income and the funds available for distribution to our stockholders could be reduced for up to five years or longer, which would have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. There are uncertainties relating to the estimate of our special E&P distribution, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we were required to distribute to our stockholders all of our accumulated non-REIT tax earnings and profits, or E&P, prior to the end of our first taxable year as a REIT, which was the taxable period ended December 31, 2006. In 2006, a special E&P distribution in the aggregate amount of approximately $445 million was distributed to our stockholders. We believe that the amount of our special E&P distribution equaled or exceeded the amount required to be distributed in order to satisfy the requirements relating to the distribution of E&P. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of the amount of our pre-REIT E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could, in any audits for tax years through 2005, successfully assert that our taxable income should be increased, which would increase our pre-REIT E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distributed all of our pre-REIT E&P by the close of our first taxable year as a REIT. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our pre-REIT E&P, we cannot now determine whether we would be able to take advantage of them or the economic impact on us of doing so. 2007 FORM 10-K / 9 Table of Contents Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax on 100% of our net income, which would reduce our cash flow and impair our ability to make distributions. REITs are generally intended to be passive entities and can thus only engage in those activities permitted by the Internal Revenue Code, which for us generally include: owning and managing a timberland portfolio; growing timber; and selling standing timber. Accordingly, the manufacture and sale by us of wood products, pulp and paperboard, tissue products, certain types of timberlands sales, and the harvest and sale of logs are conducted through Potlatch TRS because such activities generate non-qualifying REIT income and could constitute “prohibited transactions” if such activities were engaged in directly by the REIT. In general, prohibited transactions are defined by the Internal Revenue Code to be sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. By conducting our business in this manner, we believe we will satisfy the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to Potlatch TRS. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur, which would adversely affect our cash flow and impair our ability to make quarterly distributions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 10 / POTLATCH CORPORATION Table of Contents 