Item 1A RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. The discussion below presents the material risks associated with our company, but are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements” on page 1. Risks Related to Our Business A significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized due to the real estate market decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our asset quality, capital structure and profitability. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by either commercial real estate or single family homes which are under construction. At December 31, 2007, approximately 80% of our loans had real estate as a component of collateral. In the majority of these loans, real estate was the primary collateral component. In some cases, and out of an abundance of caution, we take real estate as security for a loan even when it is not the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral that provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default may deteriorate in value during the term of the loan. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We are subject to increased lending risks in the form of loan defaults as a result of the high concentration of real estate lending in our loan portfolio with the recent real estate market downturn. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole opportunity for gains on your investment for the foreseeable future. We have paid cash dividends in the past. We continually evaluate, as part of our overall capital plan, whether to continue, reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefore. In any event, as part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business and our capital needs. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal and state laws and policies, including various regulatory restrictions with respect to dividends payable by our subsidiary bank, which is our primary source of cash flow. Due to our net loss in 2007, discretionary approval by regulatory authorities is necessary for CapitalSouth Bank to pay dividends. Though such approval was obtained with respect to the first quarter of 2008, no assurance can be provided that any such further approval can be obtained or what conditions may be associated with it. See “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Dividends Rights” on page15. Our holding company structure and regulations applicable to us can restrict our ability to provide liquidity to meet our obligations. Our business operations and related generation of cash flow principally occur in our subsidiary bank. Significant parts of our capital markets obligations, including payment on secured debt under our $5.0 million line of credit, and unsecured junior debt incurred in connection with our acquisition of Monticello, along with dividends on trust preferred securities and the related debentures, are obligations of the holding company. Historically, the holding company has relied upon dividends from our subsidiary bank to fund these types of obligations. Due to our net loss in 2007, which subjects us to a requirement to obtain discretionary regulatory approval in order to pay dividends from our subsidiary bank to the holding company, we face uncertainty upon our ability to continue to operate in this manner. Although such approval was obtained with respect to the first quarter of 2008, no assurance can be provided that any such further approval can be obtained or what conditions may be associated with it. See “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Dividend Rights” on page 15. At the present time, the holding company has limited resources in order to meet such obligations in the absence of payment of dividends from our subsidiary bank. These resources include a limited amount of cash on hand and the ability to make further draws on its line of credit, which matures on January 18, 2009. In light of this, we may determine that it is necessary or appropriate to raise capital or seek other financing sources and/or take steps to reduce our cash payment obligation at the holding company level which could include suspension of common stock or trust preferred stock dividends. 19 Our business strategy historically included the pursuit of a strong growth strategy, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. In light of current market conditions and capital constrictions, we are unlikely to continue our growth at historic levels during the coming year. While we intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business, any such growth will be carefully managed in light of current constrictions on capital levels. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development, such as the continuing need for infrastructure and personnel, the time and costs inherent in integrating a series of different operations and the ongoing expense of acquiring and staffing new banks or branches. We may not be able to expand our presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets and any expansion could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including an improvement in current market conditions, the availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. There can be no assurance of success or the availability of growth opportunities. Our plans for future expansion and bank acquisitions depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth through acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We expect to continue to engage in new branch expansion in the future. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions. Expansion involves a number of risks, including: • the costs associated with establishing new locations and retaining experienced local management; • time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our potential inability to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing stockholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of transactions, which may detract from their business productivity; and • our entry into new markets in which we may lack experience. Current economic conditions may require us to raise additional capital in the future, and unavailability of additional capital could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate. We anticipate issuing additional capital to restore our Total Risk Based capital ratio to a well capitalized level. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio based on our assessment of the information available. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. 20 If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005 was $8.9 million, $4.3 million, and $3.9 million, respectively. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. In particular, our market areas are dominated by large national and regional financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. See “Business — Market Area and Competition” on page 5. We are dependent on the services of our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on certain executive officers, especially W. Dan Puckett, W. Flake Oakley IV, John E. Bentley, Carol W. Marsh, Daniel W. Gibson, Richard T. Perdue, William D. Puckett, II, John P. Ronan and H. Fred Coble, Jr. This is particularly true because, as a small commercial bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our rapid growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of services from a member of our current management team may have an adverse effect upon us. We do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with any of our executive officers. In the absence of these types of agreements, our executive officers are free to resign their employment at any time and accept an offer of employment from another company, including a competitor. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant control over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Anti-takeover provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may be deemed to have the effect of making more difficult an acquisition of control of our company in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In the event of such issuance, the preferred stock could also be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or 21 preventing a change in control of our company. Although we do not currently intend to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may issue such shares in the future. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that our board of directors will be divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms and that a director may only be removed for cause. These provisions could enable a minority of our stockholders to prevent the removal of a director sought to be removed by a majority of the stockholders and may tend to enhance management’s ability to retain control over our affairs and to preserve the director’s present position on the board. The ability of stockholders to act by written consent or call special meetings of stockholders is subject to restrictions. This reduces our stockholders’ ability to initiate or effect corporate actions independently of the board of directors. Risks Related to Our Industry Our stock price is volatile Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: • Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; • Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • Our announcements of developments related to our businesses; • Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; • Actions by government regulators; • New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-attritional competitors; and • News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price of such stock may not be indicative of future market prices. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as valuation of our assets and liabilities. We currently have a negative (or liability sensitive) one-year gap position and, as a result, net interest income will be adversely affected if market rates rise so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Accordingly, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are significantly affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationship between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in interest rate spread. One source of our noninterest income is gains on the sale of loans, including SBA loans, through our Business Capital Group and mortgage loans through our wholesale mortgage segment. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our ability to originate these loans and our ability to realize gains on the sale of these loans. See “Business” on page 2. An economic downturn or natural disaster, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flow. We are subject to the local economies in the MSA’s of Birmingham-Hoover, Huntsville and Montgomery, Alabama and Jacksonville, Florida. Our success depends in part upon the stability or growth in population, income levels, deposits and 22 housing starts in our primary market areas. If prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally decline, or continue to decline, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and on our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic factors in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies of our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Alabama and Florida is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a small commercial bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than are larger national or regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. The Florida market, including our Jacksonville banking office, and portions of our Alabama market, principally south of Montgomery, are also subject to risks from hurricanes. Though to date we have not been adversely impacted by recent storms, hurricanes may damage or dislocate our facilities (though we have computer back-up and other emergency contingency plans in place), may damage or destroy collateral, adversely affect the livelihood of borrowers and otherwise cause significant economic dislocation in affected areas. See “Business” on page 2. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. We are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board by virtue of the fact that we are a registered bank holding company. Our subsidiary bank is also primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the Alabama State Banking Department. The process of complying with Federal Reserve Board regulations is costly to us and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. Violations of various laws, even if unintentional, may result in significant fines or other penalties, including restrictions on branching or bank acquisitions. Recently, banks generally have faced increased regulatory sanctions and scrutiny particularly with respect to the USA Patriot Act and other statutes relating to anti-money laundering compliance and customer privacy. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. As a relatively new public company, the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq will apply to our operations. These laws and regulations increase the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. Despite our conducting business in a highly regulated environment, these laws and regulations have different requirements for compliance. Our expenses related to services rendered by our accountants, legal counsel and consultants will increase in order to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations that we are subject to as a public company. We have conducted a comprehensive review and confirmation of the adequacy of our existing systems and controls as required under Section 404 of SOX. While we have not discovered any major deficiencies in our systems and controls, we may discover deficiencies in the future. If that is the case, we intend to take the necessary steps to correct any deficiencies, and these steps may be costly to us and may strain our management resources. Our inability to comply with SOX and subsequent public disclosure of that fact may result in a decline in the market price for our common stock. 23 Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations are affected by policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. See “Business — Supervision and Regulation” on page 10. Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 