ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the price of our common shares could decline significantly and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Primary Insurance and Reinsurance Business Segments In the past we have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. If these trends continue in the future, it could adversely affect our financial condition and there could be doubt about ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in the past. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced a net loss of $46.8 million and negative cash flows from operations of $12.9 million. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future and that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred. If these trends continue in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. CRM Holdings, CRM USA Holdings and Embarcadero, our holding companies, generate no revenues but are obligated to pay expenses related to severance, debt service, public company and other general corporate overhead expenses. Our holding companies rely upon dividends and/or distributions of capital from their subsidiaries to meet these obligations. However, as regulated insurance companies, Majestic and Twin Bridges are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends and/or distribute capital as described above under the heading “Item 1. Business – Regulation.” In addition, our fee based subsidiary CRM CA has experienced declining cash flows due to the closure of and decline in premiums under management of the self-insured groups it manages, and CRM and Eimar have no operating cash inflows or outflow as they are classified as discontinued operations but continue to have legal defense and contractual obligation payments. We have developed a plan to conserve cash in order meet our obligations, which is discussed below under the heading “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimate – Going Concern.” It is possible, however, that the actual results of one or more of our plans could be materially worse than anticipated, or that one or more of our significant judgments or estimates concerning the risks and uncertainties affecting us could prove to be materially incorrect. Our future is dependent on our ability to execute our plan successfully or otherwise address the matters. If we fail to do so for any reason, we woul d not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or Bermuda Companies Act. Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our losses. If we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses we insure, our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses and we may fail to establish appropriate premium rates. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured and reinsured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Our loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process are the average cost of claims over time (which are referred to as severity trends and include the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs); frequency risks; fluctuations in inflation; prevailing economic, social and judicial trends; legislative changes; third party claims handling procedures; costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process; and other third p arty factors beyond our control. If there are unfavorable changes in our key assumptions, our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses might need to be increased. 31 In addition, loss reserves associated workers’ compensation claims carry additional uncertainty as compared to loss reserves associated with other types of insurance. Workers’ compensation claims are “long-tail” in nature such that claims are often paid over a long period of time. Further, there are no policy limits on liability for workers’ compensation claims. Accordingly, estimating reserves for insurance of workers’ compensation claims can be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other lines of insurance with shorter or more definite periods between the occurrence of the claim and the final determination of the ultimate loss and with policy limits for claim amounts. As a result, there is a greater risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the risks ass ociated with the businesses that we insure and that our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Further, we have limited operating histories in certain areas of our business that can lead to additional uncertainty with our loss reserves. We rely on a combination of industry data and benchmarks and limited operating history for policies written by Majestic in states other than California and for Twin Bridges’ reinsurance reserves. Consequently, operational changes in claims handling practices over the years may impact the interpretation of this historical data, which can also be impacted by external forces such as legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. Additionally, our actual loss experience in this line of business could be materially higher than industry loss experience, and therefore we are exposed to an increased likelihood that our actual results may not conform to our estimates. Additionally, Twin Bridges reinsures insurance policies written by Majestic and we are exposed to a greater share of these losses, since, on a consolidated basis, we remain responsible for 100% of any losses under the insurance policies issued by Majestic. Any underestimate of our loss reserves for this risk would have a greater impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position than if Majestic reinsured with an unaffiliated third party. The increased overall exposure to losses from large and/or frequent loss occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent our loss reserves for Majestic or Twin Bridges are insufficient to cover actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves which would result in a charge to our earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been, and will continue to be, necessary to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and related expenses. If we do not effectively price our insurance policies, our financial results will be adversely affected. Our primary insurance policy prices are established when coverage is initiated. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. Our prices for primary insurance coverage are based on estimates of expected losses generated from the policies which we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder’s prior loss history, and the loss prevention orientation of the policyholder’s management. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder’s past claims experience puts us at risk of mispricing our policies. When initiating coverage on a policyholder, we rely on the claims information provided by the policyholder or previous carriers to estimate future claims expe nse. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may under price our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Besides the risks associated with under-pricing risks, we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In addition, our competitors may adopt premium rate reductions that are greater than ours. In any of these scenarios, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected. Finally, the rating actions of state regulatory authorities have a material impact on the pricing of our policies. See “Workers’ Compensation Market Conditions” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis” for a discussion of rating actions. 32 Our insurance operations and premiums could be significantly affected by the ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions in the U.S. Our insurance operations and financial performance may be impacted by changes in the U.S. economy. Although there have been some indicators of stabilization, the U.S. continues to experience significant recessionary conditions and we believe meaningful risk remains of potential further deterioration in economic conditions. The significant downturn in the U.S. economy during the end of 2008 and in 2009 led to lower reported payrolls, which has had a negative impact on our net earned premiums. If our customers reduce their workforce levels, the level of workers’ compensation insurance coverage they require and, as a result the premiums that we charge, would be reduced, and if our customers cease operations, they will not renew their policies. It is uncertain if economic conditions will deteriorate further, or when economic conditions will improve. A prolonged recession could further reduce payrolls, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in the A.M. Best ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries could reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Majestic currently has a financial strength rating of “B++” (Good) from A.M. Best. Twin Bridges currently has a financial strength rating of “B+” (Good) from A.M. Best. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of our insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common shares and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares. Our insurance companies’ financial strength ratings were downgraded by A.M. Best in December 2009. A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating of Majestic to “B++” (Good) from “A-” (Excellent) and the financial strength rating of Twin Bridges to “B+” (Good) from “B++” (Good). Both ratings were placed under review with negative implications. The rating actions reflected A.M. Best’s concern over the potential impact on Majestic and Twin Bridges due to the regulatory and litigation issues faced by their affiliates, CRM and CRM Holdings. For a further discussion of A.M. Best’s rating actions, see “Item 1. Business – Ratings” above. The ratings assigned by A.M. Best can be an important factor in marketing our products. For example, some of our independent brokers and insureds, such as certain segments of the contracting industry, may have guidelines requiring their insurers to have a financial strength rating of “A-” or better. The reduction of Majestic’s A.M. Best rating below “A-” to “B++” may prevent us from issuing policies to such entities. In this case, we will not be able to compete for these policies, and as such we could experience a significant decline in our net earned premiums. Furthermore, our ratings remain subject to further change at any time. Majestic’s and Twin Bridges’ rating are currently assigned an “under review with negative implications” rating modifier. Our ratings could be further revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on these ratings. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, including a further downgrade, could cause our current and future independent agents and brokers and insureds to choose to transact their business with competitors of ours that have higher A.M. Best ratings. If A.M. Best further downgrades our ratings, it is likely tha t we would not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and our ability to sell our products could decline. If that happens, our revenues and earnings could decrease substantially. In addition, because lenders and reinsurers will also use our A.M. Best ratings as a factor in deciding whether to transact business with us, the failure of Majestic or Twin Bridges to maintain their current ratings could dissuade a lender or reinsurance company from conducting business with us or might increase our interest or reinsurance costs. As a result of any of the foregoing, our business revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 33 If we are unable to obtain or collect on our reinsurance protection, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance coverage to help manage the risk assumed under our workers’ insurance compensation policies issued by Majestic. Reinsurance coverage helps to protect us from the impact of large losses. It involves an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk by sharing premiums with another insurance company, called the reinsurer. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Majestic currently purchases excess of loss reinsurance and participates in ceded quota share agreements. Under quota share reinsurance, the reinsurer, or assuming company, accepts a pro rata share of the insurer’s, or ceding company’s, losses and an equal share of the applicable premiums. Under excess of loss reinsurance, the reinsurer reimburses the ceding company for losses and loss expenses over a specified dollar amount up to an agreed limit per occurrence. For a discussion of Majestic’s reinsurance coverage, see “Item 1. Business – Primary Insurance Segment – Reinsurance” above. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and our experience with insured losses and may vary significantly. As a result of catastrophic events, such as the events of September 11, 2001, we may incur significantly higher reinsurance costs, more restrictive terms and conditions and decreased availability. We review and renegotiate our reinsurance protection each year. We cannot be certain, however, that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity could be reduced. These consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we currently expect to renew Majestic’s reinsurance programs, any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance at the time of renewal, whether caused by the existence of more restrictive terms and conditions or decreased availability, will also increase our risk of loss and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to Majestic’s reinsurers. Reinsurance protection that Majestic receives does not discharge its direct obligations under its insurance policies, as Majestic remains liable to its policyholders even if we are unable to recover under Majestic’s reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from the reinsurers until claims are paid, and, in the case of long-term workers’ compensation cases, the creditworthiness of the reinsurers may change and we may not recover amounts to which we are entitled. As of December 31, 2009, Majestic had $111.6 million recoverable from its unaffiliated reinsurers that we would be obligated to pay if the reinsurers failed to pay Majestic. If we experience these problems in the future, our charges to income would incre ase and our net income would decline. These consequences would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. As of December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, had a carrying value of $332.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had $16.3 million of net investment income from continuing operations. Our investment portfolios funds are invested by a professional investment management firm under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. 34 During the end of 2008 and in 2009, the capital markets in the United States and elsewhere experienced extreme volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices. Our investment portfolio is affected by the changes in the capital markets. In addition, benchmark interest rates, such as the Federal Fund Rate, are currently at historic lows, which is likely to significantly impact our investment income. Changes in interest rates and credit quality may result in fluctuations in the income derived from, or the valuation of, our fixed income securities. Our investment portfolios include a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in int erest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. Conversely, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. Any significant decline in our investment income as a result of falling interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates or general market conditions could have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our shareholders’ equity and our policyholders’ surplus. Further adverse changes in the capital markets could result in additional other-than-temporary impairments in the future, or could reduce our investment income, which would adversely affect our results of operations, and financial condition. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the amount of each claim to rise in the future. Our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling costs, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs, we would be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our written premium. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid t o injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on case incurred losses. In addition, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those employers who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier on a negotiated basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we price our insurance to account for obligations we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. As we write policies in new states that have mandat ory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or increases in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage. When writing workers’ compensation insurance policies, we are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Majestic’s current excess of loss reinsurance treaty program excludes coverage for acts of terrorism. Notwithstanding the protection provided by reinsurance and the Terrorism Risk Act, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of the Terrorism Risk Act and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.< /div> 35 Risks Related to Litigation We are involved in several pending litigation matters as described below. As each of these matters is in a preliminary stage, the outcomes are difficult to predict and quantify, and the defense against such claims can be costly. In addition to decreasing profitability, diverting financial and management resources and general business disruption, we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our reputation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately successful in our defense of the action. We cannot estimate what impact, if any, the litigation may have on our business reputation, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These matters, or other claims or lawsuits that may arise later, if decided adversely to or settled by u s, individually or in the aggregate, could require us to pay significant damage amounts and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These liabilities may exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover the liabilities we may incur. We are subject to an investigation and potential litigation by the New York State Attorney General’s Office in connection with CRM’s self-insured group administration practices and our initial public offering in December 2005, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to an investigation and potential litigation by the New York State Office of the Attorney General (“NY Attorney General”) in connection with CRM’s self insured group administration and our initial public offering in December 2005. On December 8, 2009, we received a “Notice of Imminent Enforcement Action” from the NY Attorney General. According to the Notice, the NY Attorney General intends to file civil claims against us, certain of our subsidiaries, and certain directors and officers to seek redress of allegedly unlawful practices, unless an acceptable settlement can be reached. The NY Attorney General’s Notice followed over 19 months of investigation, during which time we cooperated fully with the NY Attorney General’s office. The NY Attorney General alleges that we and the other named parties engaged in fraudulent practices in connection with CRM’s administration and marketing of workers’ compensation group self-insurance trusts in New York and in connection with our initial public offering completed in December 2005. These practices are alleged to have violated New York’s Executive Law and Martin Act. The NY Attorney General is intending to seek injunctive relief, restitution, damages, penalties, and costs. The closure of our self-insured groups and our discontinued New York fee-based management services business has resulted in several lawsuits and exposes us to potential liability. CRM and its affiliates have been named in several lawsuits following the closure of the New York self-insured groups, which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The New York State Workers’ Compensation Board has commenced a lawsuit on its own behalf and in its capacity as successor in interest to seven of eight workers’ compensation group self-insurance trusts in New York previously managed by CRM. The lawsuit alleges that CRM, CRM Holdings, its other subsidiaries and certain directors and officers breached fiduciary duties owed to the trusts, breached contracts between CRM and the trusts, breached duties of good faith and fair dealing owed to the trusts, engaged in fraudulent activities in administering the trusts, engaged in deceptive business practices and advertising, and were unjustly enriched. The New York State Workers’ Compensation Board alleges that it and the trusts have suffered damages in an amount that is not currently ascertainable, but which is believed to exceed $405 million. In addition to this lawsuit, CRM, CRM Holdings, its subsidiaries and certain directors and officers have been named in several other lawsuits brought by the former members of the trusts. For a complete discussion of the litigation pending against us, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. 36 We are currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In February 2010, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our directors and executive officers alleging violations of federal securities laws. For further discussion of this lawsuit, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. Our fee based management services business in California exposes us to litigation. The management and closure of our self-insured groups in California expose us to significant potential risks. We may have liability for errors or omissions in providing management services to California self-insured groups. We may be liable to our groups, members of our groups and other third parties and governmental authorities for, among other things, damages, fines, penalties and regulatory actions. If a self-insured group is unable to maintain assets in an amount which exceeds its liabilities, the group must submit a plan to the California Department of Industrial Relations describing how it expects to fund the deficit and may be required to assess its members in order to remedy such deficiency, deposit additional security with the California Department of Industrial Relations or, in certain circumstances, be dissolved. Three of the self-insured groups managed by CRM CA have been unable to maintain assets which exceed their liabilities. The failure of these self-insured groups to maintain assets exceeding their liabilities could expose to litigation, and we may be liable for errors and omissions in administering these self-insured groups. For a discussion of the current legal actions with respect to our C alifornia groups, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” These liabilities may exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage for our errors or omission or at rates that we consider reasonable. Moreover, our maintenance of errors and omissions insurance coverage for our California management activities could be adversely affected by the pending lawsuits in New York. If our policies are terminated and do not contain retroactive coverage, we will not be insured for claims made after the termination of coverage even if these claims are based on events or acts that occurred during the term of the policy. In such an event, we could be exposed to liability which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the loss reserves for the self-insured group we manage, or self-insured groups we managed in the past, are underestimated, our business could be adversely affected. The self-insured group we manage, or self-insured groups we managed in the past, establish loss reserves as they recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, which represent estimates of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not been reported. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. The self-insured groups’ loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process including average cost of claims over time, include the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs; frequency risks; fluctuations in inflation; prevailing economic, social and judicial trends; legislative changes; third party claims handling procedures; costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process; and other third party factors beyo nd the groups’ control. To the extent the loss reserves for the self-insured groups we manage, or self-insured groups managed in the past, are insufficient to cover the group’s actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, the groups will have to adjust their loss reserves which could have a material adverse effect on the groups’ financial condition and cash flows and could require the group to assess its members. This could expose us to liability for our management of a group. 37 We may be deemed to have a conflict of interest in concurrently managing self-insured groups and placing the excess coverage for these groups with Majestic and also providing primary workers’ compensation insurance to potential members of the self-insured groups. We act as the insurance broker for the self-insured group we manage to assist it with the negotiation and purchase of the required excess and frequency coverage. Coverage for the self-insured group we manage has been placed with Majestic and a portion of such coverage has been reinsured by Twin Bridges. In addition, we are currently providing primary workers’ compensation insurance policies to businesses that are potential members of the self-insured group we manage. Although we have fully disclosed these relationships to the board of trustees of the self-insured groups we manage, it is possible that one or more of our groups could conclude that these relationships present an unacceptable conflict of interest. In this event, we could lose all or a substantial portion of our fee-based management services r evenue which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In June 2008, Majestic received a “Call for Special Report and Documents Pursuant to Section 308 of the Insurance Law” from the New York State Insurance Department. Among other items, the New York State Insurance Department has requested information related to Majestic’s acquisition of former members of the self-insured groups previously managed by CRM as insureds of Majestic. Majestic has complied with the New York State Insurance Department’s request. To Majestic’s knowledge, the New York State Insurance Department has not initiated any proceedings against Majestic. We cannot estimate what impact, if any, this inquiry and any results from this inquiry may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Generally Applicable to our Business and Industry Our revenues and results of operation may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry, which may cause the price of our common shares to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: · competition; · rate increases and decreases; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic and other loss events; · changes in the availability of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; · rising loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time our insurance products are priced; and · other general economic and social conditions. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus, which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reductio n in premium rates and additional competition for business. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. If rates continue to decrease and competition continues to increase, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 38 The current recession and other adverse consequences of the recent U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our share price. Although there have been some indicators of stabilization, the U.S. economy continues to experience significant recessionary conditions, and we believe meaningful risk remains of potential further deterioration in economic conditions, including substantial and continuing financial market disruptions. The current U.S. recession has resulted in unprecedented levels of market volatility, credit illiquidity and declining interest rates which may significantly affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted since the fall of 2008 due in part to financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets. These circumstances have also exerted downward pr essure on stock prices and reduced access to the equity and debt markets for many issuers, including us. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, these conditions are likely to affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our insurance policies, the ability of customers, reinsurers and other counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the risks we assume under insurance and reinsurance policies, and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may adversely affect us or our share price. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. The workers’ compensation insurance market is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, has very few barriers to entry. We compete with many companies and other underwriting organizations in the workers’ compensation insurance business. Many of the insurance companies we compete against have significantly more capital, name and brand recognition and marketing and management resources than we have. Many of our competitors have offered, and may continue to offer, workers’ compensation insurance combined with other insurance coverage. Some of our competitors offer workers’ compensation insurance on a multi-state basis greater than ours. In addition, most of our competitors have financial strength ratings from A.M. Best higher than ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy in a manner that will allow us to be competitive. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We offer only workers’ compensation insurance products. As a result of this concentration, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell other types of insurance. If continued rate declines impair profitability, in any of the states in which we operate, we may elect to reduce the amount of premiums written in such states. If our competitors offer products at prices lower than we believe would be profitable, we may decline to compete at those lower prices and o ur premium levels could be reduced. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers’ compensation insurance that they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. As we offer only workers’ compensation insurance products, we must make a profit on this business and will not lower our price to obtain business below a price that we believe will be profitable for us. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation that limits the way we can operate our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the California Department of Insurance and the Bermuda Monetary Authority and other insurance regulatory agencies in each state in which we are licensed. The self-insured group we manage is subject to extensive regulation by the California Department of Industrial Relations. These regulatory agencies have broad regulatory powers designed primarily to protect policyholders, group members, and their employees, but not our shareholders. 39 Regulations vary from jurisdiction, but typically address or include: · approval of premium, contribution and funding rates; · ratios of assets to liabilities, credit and risk reserves, net worth levels and standards of solvency; · formation of self-insured groups and licensing as a third-party claims administrator; · limits on the size and nature of risks assumed and retained; · reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes; · periodic audits and other regulatory reviews of financial statements; · annual reporting and disclosure agreements; · limitations on our ability to transact business with our affiliates; · regulation of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; · compliance with various licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; · approval or rejection of policy coverage and endorsements; · limitations on our investments and dividends; · assessment requirements for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and · compliance with medical privacy laws. Insurance departments and state workers’ compensation or similar boards also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of the insurance companies and groups they regulate and require the filing of periodic, annual and other reports relating to financial condition, approval of new members, groups and other matters. Moreover, the NAIC and the state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and proposals for new laws. Such laws, regulations or interpretations by NAIC or state insurance regulators may be more restrictive or result in higher costs to us or the groups we manage. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses or suspend underwriting of business for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We intend to base some of our practices on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally accepted by the insurance industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we, or the group we manage, do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us or the group we manage from carrying on some or all of our or their activities, or otherwise impose penalties. In such an event, our reputation as well as our ability to operate our busin ess would be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to transact business with our affiliates and to enter into mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving Majestic is limited by the requirements of the insurance holding company laws in California. To comply with these laws, we are required to file notices with the California Department of Insurance to seek its approval at least thirty days before engaging in any inter-company transactions, such as sales, purchases, exchanges of assets, loans, extensions of credit, cost sharing arrangements and extraordinary dividends or other distributions to shareholders. Under these holding company laws, any change of control transaction also requires prior notification and approval. 40 In addition, during the pendency of the Special Examiner’s appointment, Majestic has agreed that it will not, without the prior approval of a Special Examiner or the California Department of Insurance: (a) make any payment to, or engage in any transaction or enter into any agreement with, an affiliated or related person or entity if the cost exceeds $10,000 except for certain payments that have previously been reported to or approved by the Department which may continue until further notice; (b) make any payment to, or engage in any transaction or enter into any agreement with any non-affiliated or unrelated person or entity outside of the ordinary course of business that exceeds $10,000 individually or $100,000 in the aggregate; or (c) pay bonuses or make other distributions (including dividen ds). Because governmental agencies, including the California Department of Insurance, may not take action or give approval within the specified period of time, these notifications and approval requirements may subject us to business delays and additional business expense. If we fail to give these notifications, we may be subject to significant fines and penalties and damaged working relations with these governmental agencies. Twin Bridges is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Among other matters, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority require Twin Bridges to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, statutory capital and surplus, and liquidity, to meet solvency standards, to obtain prior approval of certain issuances and transfers of shares as well as to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict Twin Bridges’ ability to assume reinsurance, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. We cannot predict whether any change to these regulations will materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, the offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory markets have long been the subject of scrutiny by federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies. This scrutiny has led to a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives designed to make it more difficult for offshore companies to transact business with U.S. persons. If Twin Bridges were to become subject to any U.S. federal or state law or regulation, Twin Bridges may be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus and may be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Compliance with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance products may not be known until many years after the coverage is initiated. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we underwrote underlying coverage. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information 41 Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions in California, New York and New Jersey. Our primary insurance business is concentrated in California which represented 64% of our primary insurance segment net earned premiums for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our primary insurance business is also concentrated in New York and New Jersey which represented 32% of our primary insurance segment net earned premiums for the year ended December 31, 2009. All of our fee based management services segment revenues are derived from California. Unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in California, New York or New Jersey could negatively impact our business, and, consequently, we are exposed to economic and regulatory risks that are greater than the risks faced by insurance companies that conduct business over a greater geographic area. Because our business is concentra ted in these three states, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in these states could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. If we cannot sustain our relationships with our independent agents and brokers, we may be unable to operate profitably. We market and sell our workers’ compensation insurance products solely through independent agents and brokers. We do not have an exclusive relationship with these independent agents and brokers. They are not obligated to promote our insurance products and may sell insurance products offered by our competitors. Some of our independent agents and brokers may cease to offer our products because Majestic’s A.M. Best rating has been reduced to “B++”. Many of our competitors have longer relationships with the independent agents and brokers that we use or intend to use. Further, we must offer workers’ compensation insurance products that meet the requirements of these agents and brokers and their customers and provide competitive compensation to these agents and brokers. We can not assure you that we will successfully maintain these relationships, cultivate new ones or be able to meet the future requirements of these independent agents and brokers. In addition, consolidation in the insurance agency and brokerage industry may lead to the loss of one or more of these relationships. The failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with the independent agents and brokers from whom we obtain or expect to obtain our business or to develop new relationships would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ratings from A.M. Best, our ability to write new business and grow premiums without the support of quota share reinsurance, our ability to establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims, state regulatory requirements and the financial stability of our reinsurers. We are currently exploring ways to enhance our capital position, which, among other things, could help support our premium growth and restore our A.M. Best rating to “A-”. However, our explorations are at the preliminary stage, and we are not able to determine if additional capital will be available to us or what the amount, form or cost of the capital will be. Furthermore, we believe that our ability to raise additional capital will be adversely affected until there is greater clarity with respect to the pending regulatory matters and lawsuits described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any additional equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, your interest in us would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common shares. If we raise capital through the issuance of debt, the incurrence and repayment of any debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies could further reduce our existing ratings. If one or m ore of our ratings were further downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. The inability of our insurance and other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies in sufficient amounts could adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations, pay dividends, make other payments and redeploy capital among our subsidiaries. CRM Holdings is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries, including Majestic, Twin Bridges and CRM CA. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet our ongoing cash requirements and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Insurance regulations in California restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions by Majestic. In addition, in connection with its triennial examination, Majestic has agreed that it will not pay dividends without the prior approval of a Special Examiner or the California Department of Insurance. Bermuda law and regulations, including Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends out of retained earnin gs, and the making of distributions out of contributed surplus, by Twin Bridges unless certain regulatory requirements are met. In addition to the regulatory restrictions, U.S. withholding tax payable on dividends paid to CRM Holdings by our U.S. subsidiaries affects our ability to pay dividends and redeploy capital from our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda operations. Any dividends paid from our U.S. subsidiaries to us would be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 30%. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 42 Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of a Permanent Resident’s Certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees in Bermuda if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on ou r business. We have obtained non-resident work permits for our key employees. If we are unable to renew the work permits for these employees or to obtain work permits for any new employees, we may not be able to conduct our business operations fully or efficiently and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our common shares could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market if we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Global Select Market requirements. Our common shares are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Our common shares could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market if we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, including a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. On November 10, 2009, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter notifying us that we fail to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) because the bid price of our common shares had closed under $1.00 for the last 30 consecutive business days. The notification does not result in the immediate delisting of our common shares from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. In accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have until May 10, 2010 to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common shares must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days. The letter states that the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance with Rule 5450(a)(1) if at any time before May 10, 2010, the bid price of our common shares closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by May 10, 2010, Nasdaq will provide written notification to us that our common shares will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer the listing of our common shares to the Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy all criteria for initial listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, other than compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. One of the criteria for initial listing on the Nasdaq Capital requires that the market value of the company’s publicly held shares be equal to at least $5 million (“publicly held shares” being defined as total shares outstanding, less any shares held directly or indirectly by officers, directors or any person who is the beneficial owner of more than 10% of the total shares outstanding of the company). In the past, the market value of our publicly held shares has been below $5 million, and we cannot assure that we will meet all the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market at the time of our application. If our application to the Nasdaq Capital Market is approved, then we may be eligible for an additional grace period. Our common shares could also be traded in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. 43 Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common shares, our ability to obtain financing or raise capital, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, market makers, reinsurers, rating agencies and employees. A delisting from Nasdaq could significantly impact the transferability and issuance of our common shares under Bermuda law. Specific permission is required from the Bermuda Monetary Authority, pursuant to the provisions of the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations, for all issuances and transfers of securities of Bermuda companies, other than in cases where the Bermuda Monetary Authority has granted a general permission. The Bermuda Monetary Authority has advised that general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a company that are listed on an appointed exchange from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equities securities of such company remain so listed. The Nasdaq Global Select Market is deemed to be an appointed stock exchange under Bermuda law and such general permission applies to our common shares. However, the OTC Bulletin Board and the “pink sheets” a re not considered to be appointed stock exchanges. Consequently, if our common shares are delisted from the Nasdaq and are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets,” we would no longer qualify for the Bermuda Monetary Authority’s grant of general permission. As an alternative, we could seek to apply for listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, which is considered an appointed stock exchange, although we cannot assure you that such a listing can be obtained. If we are delisted from Nasdaq and are not able to obtain listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, the transfer and issuance of our common shares would subject to specific permission of the Bermuda Monetary Authority under the Exchange Control Act 1972. This would adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common shares, our ability to obtain financing or raise capital, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, market makers, reinsurers, rating agencies and employees. Future sales of common shares by our directors, officers, affiliates and other shareholders may adversely affect the price, and the future issues of shares under our employee incentive plans may lower the price, of our common shares. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common shares. Future sales of common shares by our directors, officers, affiliates and other shareholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate. In addition, additional common shares may be issuable pursuant to our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, pursuant to which we have reserved up to 1,500,000 common shares for issuance. The issuance of shares under the plan will result in a dilution of your investment. Provisions in our charter documents may reduce or increase the voting power associated with our common shares and thereby affect your voting rights. Our bye-laws generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, pursuant to a mechanism specified in our bye-laws, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder will be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power conferred by our shares. In addition, our board of directors retains certain discretion to make adjustments to the aggregate number of votes attaching to the shares of any shareholder that they consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to ensure that no person will hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power represented by our then outstanding shares. Our bye-laws provide, generally, that any shareholder ow ning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, more than 9.9% of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than 9.9% of the total voting rights. The reduction in votes is generally to be applied proportionately among all shareholders who are members of the first shareholder’s control group. A control group means, with respect to any person, all shares directly owned by such person and all shares directly owned by each other shareholder any of whose shares are included in the controlled shares of such person. Controlled shares means all common shares that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (within the meaning of Section 958(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code) or, in the case of a U.S. person, constructively (within the meaning of Section 958(b) of the Code). A similar limitation is to be applied to shares held directly by members of a related group. A related group means a group of shareholders that are investment vehicles and are under common control and management. Any reduction in votes will generally be applied proportionately among members of the shareholder’s control group or related group, as the case may be. The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among all of our other shareholders who were not members of these groups so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our shares. 44 The attribution rules with respect to a control group will not apply to Daniel G. Hickey, Sr. and Daniel G. Hickey, Jr. Accordingly, the voting rights of each of Mr. Hickey, Sr. and Mr. Hickey, Jr. will be limited to 9.9% on an individual basis and not on a joint and aggregate basis. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reduction in the votes of other shareholders, your voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we, in our reasonable discretion, may reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our bye-laws that could have such an effect include the following: · election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; · the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.9% of our common shares will be reduced to 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares; and · our directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register if the shares have not been fully paid for, if the directors are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained, if as a result of the transfer a shareholder would own more than 9.9% of our common shares, or if the instrument of transfer is in favor of more than five persons jointly. 45 U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. In order to highlight those differences, we have set forth below a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, including, where relevant, information on our bye-laws, which differ in certain respects from the provisions of Delaware corporate law. Further, under certain circumstances, our bye-laws impose greater restrictions on us than required by the Companies Act. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in the name of a company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of such company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority sh areholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The successful party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of the attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in our right, against any director or officer or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors or resident representative for any action or failure to act in the performance of his duties, except such waiver shall not extend to any claims or rights of action that would render the waiver void pursuant to the Companies Act and arise out of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such person or with respect to the recovery of any gain, personal profit or advantage to which such person is not legally entitled. Conversely, class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware corpor ate law, for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions under Delaware corporate law, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorney’s fees in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors and any resident representative (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense, to the fullest extent permitted by law, incurred or suffered by such officer, director or other person by reason of any act done, conceived in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of his duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of such director, officer or other person. Under Bermuda law, a company pursua nt to the terms of its bye-laws, or a contract or arrangement between the company and any director or officer, may advance moneys to any director or officer for the costs, charges and expenses incurred by the director or officer in defending any civil or criminal proceedings against them, on condition that the director or officer shall repay the advance if any allegation of fraud or dishonesty is proved against them. In general, under Delaware corporate law, U.S. companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and reasonably believed their actions were not opposed to the best interests of the company and, with regard to criminal actions or proceedings, without knowing violation of law. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us. We are a Bermuda company and a significant portion of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for shareholders to affect service of process against us or to enforce against us judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not United States) law.< /font> 46 In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to the public policy of Bermuda. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, may not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, will not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they may be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violations of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation CRM Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation. If CRM Holdings or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including Twin Bridges, were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, that entity could be subject to U.S. income and branch profits tax on all or a portion of the income that is effectively connected with such trade or business. We intend to operate in a manner such that neither CRM Holdings nor any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Accordingly, we do not believe that CRM Holdings or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are or will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on net income. However, this determination is essentially factual in nature, and there are no definitive standards as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the U nited States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, would not find that CRM Holdings or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Any liability for income or branch profits tax resulting from such finding could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if CRM Holdings and our non-U.S. subsidiaries are not treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on certain fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits, and income (such as dividends and certain interest on investments) derived from sources within the United States. CRM Holdings could be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and thus subject to U.S. tax on its worldwide income (including current income of Twin Bridges), if the value of Twin Bridges at the time of our restructuring did not exceed 20% of the total value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges at that time. If a foreign corporation acquires substantially all of the assets of a U.S. corporation, and 80% or more of the stock of the foreign corporation (excluding new stock issued in a public offering related to the acquisition) is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of their ownership of the U.S. corporation, the foreign corporation will be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In our restructuring, the former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar contributed all of their interests in CRM, CRM CA and Eimar to CRM USA Holdings in return for all of the common stock of CRM USA Holdings. The former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar then contributed all of their CRM USA Holdings shares to us in exchange for 6,372,425 of our common shares. In addition, in our restructuring, the former owners of Twin Bridges contributed all of their shares in Twin Bridges to us in exchange for 3,874,690 of our common shares. As a result of these exchanges, the former owners of CRM, CRM CA Eimar and Twin Bridges acquired 9,457,115 of our common shares in our restructuring. Based on discussions with our professional advisors at the time of our restructuring, we believe that the former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar did not obtain 80% or more of the stock of CRM Holdings (excluding the stock sold in our initial public offering) by reason of their ownership of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar (i.e., we believe that Twin Bridges was worth more than 20% of the combined value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges). We cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with our conclusions. If the IRS successfully challenges our conclusions, CRM Holdings would be subject to United States federal income tax on its worldwide income at the rate applicable to U.S. corporations, which is currently 35%, rather than being subject to tax on only certain U.S. source income and income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, in that case, dividends paid to CRM Holdings by its U.S. subsidiaries would not be subject to any U.S. federal income tax, nor would they be subject to the 30% U.S. federal withholding tax. The tax liability that would result if CRM Holdings is treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 47 Any of our U.S. subsidiaries may be deemed a “personal holding company” and subject to additional U.S. federal income tax. Any of CRM Holdings’ U.S. subsidiaries might be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax on a portion of its income if it is considered a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares by value could be deemed to be owned (taking into account indirect and constructive ownership) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of such subsidiary’s adjusted ordinary gross income consists of “personal holding company income,” which is, in general, certain forms of passive and investment income. We believe based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base that none of CRM Holdings’ U.S. subsidiaries should be considered a personal holdings company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we intend to manage our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate common share ownership (i.e., as determined by the constructive ownership rules for personal holdings companies), we cannot be certain that none of CRM Holdings’ subsidiaries will be considered a personal holding company or that the amount of U.S. tax that would be imposed in that case would be immaterial Shareholders who are U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their pro rata share of our undistributed earnings. Shareholders who are U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed earnings if we are treated as a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company or if we have generated more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income. In addition, gain on the disposition of our common shares may be treated as dividend income. Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation for an uninterrupted period of thirty days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the controlled foreign corporation directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the corporation’s taxable year on which such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. Subpart F income generally includes, among other things, investment income such as dividends, interest and cap ital gains, and income from insuring risks located outside the insurer’s country of incorporation. A foreign corporation is considered a controlled foreign corporation if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation entitled to vote. For purposes of taking into account subpart F income consisting of insurance income, a controlled foreign corporation also includes a foreign corporation of which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts generating subpart F income exceeds 75% of the gross amount of premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. It is expected that all of Twin Bridges’ income will be considered subpart F insurance income. For purposes of determining whether the more-than-50% (or more-than-25%, in the case of insurance income) and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, and therefore whether a corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities and shares considered owned under applicable constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. CRM Holdings’ Bye-Laws contain provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares. Accordingly, based upon these provisions and the dispersion of our share ownership, we do not believe that we have any 10% U.S. Shareholders. It is possible, however that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. 48 Related Person Insurance Income. If Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income equals or exceeds 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year, direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Twin Bridges and U.S. persons are considered to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of Twin Bridges by vote or value, then a U.S. person who owns any of our shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of Twin Bridges’ taxable year on which it is a controlled foreign corporation would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata shar e of Twin Bridges’ related person insurance income for the U.S. person’s taxable year that includes the end of Twin Bridges’ taxable year, determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition any related person insurance income that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of related person insurance income earned by Twin Bridges (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Twin Bridges or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Twin Bridges. Although we do not expect our gross related person insurance income to equal or exceed 20% of our gross insurance income in the foreseeable future, some of the factors which determine the extent of related person insurance income in any period may be beyond Twin Bridges’ control. Consequently, Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income could equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The related person insurance income rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income (even if the amount of related person insurance income is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to related person i nsurance income). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because CRM Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. Passive Foreign Investment Company. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a passive foreign investment company. However, it is possible that we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company by the IRS. Our being considered a passive foreign investment company could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be issued in the future. We cannot predict what impact, if any, this guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company for any year. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda has given each of CRM Holdings and Twin Bridges an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to CRM Holdings or Twin Bridges or any of their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a m aterial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 49 Changes in U.S. tax law or regulations could materially adversely affect our business. Legislation is periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance and reinsurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United State but have certain U.S. connections. U.S. Rep. Richard Neal has introduced bills, most recently H.R. 3424 in 2009 (the Neal Bill), which provides that foreign insurers and reinsurers would be capped in deducting reinsurance premiums ceded from U.S. insurers to offshore affiliates. The Neal Bill, which was referred to the House Ways and Means Committee, would limit deductions for related party reinsurance cessions to the average percentage of premium ceded to unrelated reinsurers (determined by reference to individual business lines). In the first quarter of 2010, the current administration released its 2011 initial budget, which included a proposal to deny a deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by a U.S. insurance company to an affiliated foreign reinsurance company on U.S. risks, if the foreign reinsurer and its shareholders are not subject to U.S. income tax on premiums received, and the amount of reinsurance premiums paid to foreign reinsurers exceeds 50 percent of the total direct insurance premiums received by the U.S. insurance company and its U.S. affiliates (unless the foreign corporation receiving the premiums elects to treat the premiums as income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business). We can provide no assurance that this legislation or similar legislation will not be adopted. We believe that passage of any such legislation would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. In addition, in March 2009, U.S. Senator Carl Levin and Rep. Lloyd Doggett introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate and House, respectively, entitled the “Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act” (S. 506 and H.R. 1265). If enacted, this legislation would, among other things, cause to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes corporations whose shares are regularly traded on an established securities market, or whose gross assets are or were $50 million or more, if the “management and control” of such a corporation occurs, directly or indirectly, primarily within the U.S. The proposed legislation provides that a corporation’s management and control will be treated as occurring primarily within the U.S. if substantially all of the executive officers and senior managemen t of the corporation who exercise day-to-day responsibility for making decisions involving strategic, financial, and operational policies of the corporation are located primarily within the U.S. In addition, among other things, the legislation would establish presumptions relating to entities and transactions in jurisdictions deemed to be “offshore secrecy jurisdictions”, the initial list of which includes Bermuda. To date, this legislation has not been approved by either the House of Representatives or the Senate. However, we can provide no assurance that this legislation or similar legislation will not ultimately be adopted. While we do not believe that the legislation would impact us or our shareholders, it is possible that an adopted bill would include additional or expanded provisions which could negatively impact us or our shareholders, or that the interpretation or enforcement of the current proposal, if enacted, would be more expansive or adverse than we currently estimate. It is possible that other legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have a material adverse impact on us or our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 