ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of future acquisitions with our operations and we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of TexStar or any future acquisition. Integration of TexStar with our business and operations has been a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to integrate TexStar successfully with our business and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the desired profitability from TexStar or any other acquisitions we may complete in the future. In addition, failure to assimilate future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; • the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 25 Table of Contents • the failure to realize expected profitability or growth; • the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; and • coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. While substantial amounts of the transportation capacity of the Regency Intrastate Pipeline System are subject to firm transportation contracts, if we are unable to utilize the remaining transportation capacity, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. As of March 1, 2007, we had definitive agreements for 562,900 MMBtu/d of firm transportation on the Regency Intrastate Pipeline System, of which 500,679 MMBtu/d was utilized in February 2007. During the month of February 2007, we also provided 195,395 MMBtu/d of interruptible transportation. If we are unable to commit the remaining uncommitted capacity on the system to firm gas transportation contracts and the parties to existing interruptible transportation contracts fail to utilize the capacity, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas, which involves factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells that supply our systems and from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase through-put volume levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our assets are: the level of successful drilling activity near these systems and our ability to compete with other gathering and processing companies for volumes from successful new wells. The level of natural gas drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. Natural gas prices reached historic highs in 2005 and early 2006 but have declined substantially in the second half of 2006. The averages of the NYMEX daily settlement prices per MMBtu of natural gas for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 were $9.02 per MMBtu and $6.98 per MMBtu, respectively. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and processing facilities and pipeline transportation systems, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budget limitations, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if additional natural gas reserves were discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we were not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, through-put volumes on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We depend on certain key producers and other customers for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, any of these key producers or customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on a limited number of producers and other customers for a significant portion of our natural gas supplies. Three customers represented 44 percent of our natural gas supply in our transportation segment for the year ended December 31, 2006. These contracts have terms that are range from month-to-month to life of lease. As these contracts expire, we will have to negotiate extensions or renewals or replace the contracts with those of other suppliers. For example, a significant contract with ExxonMobil expired in August 2006 and was not renewed. We may be unable to obtain new or renewed contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the volumes of natural gas supplied by these producers and other customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In accordance with industry practice, we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering systems. Accordingly, volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In accordance with industry practice, we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated lives of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated lives of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural gas, NGLs and other commodity prices are volatile, and a reduction in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. NGL prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, natural gas prices reached historic highs in 2005 and early 2006, but declined substantially in the second half of 2006. The NYMEX daily settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2005 ranged from a high of $15.38 per MMBtu to a low of $5.79 per MMBtu and for the year ended December 31, 2006 ranged from a high of $10.63 per MMBtu to a low of $4.20 per MMBtu. The NYMEX daily settlement price for crude oil for the prompt month contract in 2005 ranged from a high of $69.81 per barrel to a low of $42.12 per barrel and for the year ended December 31, 2006 ranged from a high of $77.03 per barrel to a low of $55.81 per barrel. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; 27 Table of Contents • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Our natural gas gathering and processing businesses operate under two types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain an agreed percentage of the proceeds (in cash or in-kind) from the sale at market prices of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs or NGL products resulting from our processing activities. Under keep-whole arrangements, we receive the NGLs removed from the natural gas during our processing operations as the fee for providing our services in exchange for replacing the thermal content removed as NGLs with a like thermal content in pipeline-quality gas or its cash equivalent. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, it is more profitable for us to process natural gas under keep-whole arrangements. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and of the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce our processing margins or reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants. For a detailed discussion of these arrangements, please read “Item 1 — Business — Our Contracts.” In our gathering and processing operations, we purchase raw natural gas containing significant quantities of NGLs, process the raw natural gas and sell the processed gas and NGLs. If we are unsuccessful in balancing the purchase of raw natural gas with its component NGLs and our sales of pipeline quality gas and NGLs, our exposure to commodity price risks will increase. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering and processing systems and our transportation pipeline for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and utilities. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes or could deliver volumes in excess of contracted volumes, a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes, or the natural gas price differential between the regions in which we operate could vary unexpectedly. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales not to be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating results. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our hedging activities. In performing our functions in the Gathering and Processing segment, we are a seller of NGLs and are exposed to commodity price risk associated with downward movements in NGL prices. As a result of the volatility of NGLs, we have executed swap contracts settled against ethane, propane, butane, natural gasoline and west Texas intermediate crude market prices, supplemented with crude oil put options. (Historically, changes in the prices of heavy NGLs, such as natural gasoline, have generally correlated with changes in the price of crude oil.) The Partnership has executed swap contracts settled against ethane, propane, butane, natural gasoline, crude oil and natural gas market prices. As of March 29, 2007, we have hedged approximately 71 percent of our expected exposure to NGL in 2007 and 2008 and approximately 28 percent in 2009. We have hedged approximately 66 percent of our expected exposure to condensate prices in 2007 and approximately 64 percent in 2008 and 2009. We have hedged approximately 60 percent of our expected exposure to natural gas prices in 2007. We continually monitor our hedging and contract portfolio and expect to continue to adjust our hedge position as conditions warrant. Also, we may seek to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates by using financial derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms from time to time. For more information about our risk management activities, please read “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 28 Table of Contents Even though our management monitors our hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect, or our hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. To the extent that we intend to grow internally through construction of new, or modification of existing, facilities, we may not be able to manage that growth effectively, which could decrease our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operation. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to grow internally will depend on a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control. In general, the construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control. Any project that we undertake may not be completed on schedule, at budgeted cost or at all. Construction may occur over an extended period, and we are not likely to receive a material increase in revenues related to such project until it is completed. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon its completion because the anticipated growth in gas production that the project was intended to capture does not materialize, our estimates of the growth in production prove inaccurate or for other reasons. For any of these reasons, newly constructed or modified midstream facilities may not generate our expected investment return and that, in turn, could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, our ability to undertake to grow in this fashion will depend on our ability to finance the construction or modification project and on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate these facilities when completed. Because we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, our future growth may be limited. Since we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, subject to the limitations on restricted payments contained in the indenture governing our senior notes and our credit facility, we will depend on financing provided by commercial banks and other lenders and the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance any significant internal organic growth or acquisitions. For a definition of available cash, please see our partnership agreement. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing from these sources, our ability to grow will be limited. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in each of our areas of operations. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas than we do. In addition, our customers who are significant producers or consumers of NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Similarly, competitors may establish new connections with pipeline systems that would create additional competition for services that we provide to our customers. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If third-party pipelines interconnected to our processing plants become unavailable to transport NGLs, our cash flow and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines that provide delivery options to and from our processing plants for the benefit of our customers. If any of these pipelines become unavailable to transport the NGLs produced at our related processing plants, we would be required to find alternative means to transport the NGLs out of our 29 Table of Contents processing plants, which could increase our costs, reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of NGLs or reduce our ability to process natural gas at these plants. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to our gathering and processing facilities, pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of pipelines, measurement equipment or facilities at receipt or delivery points; • fires and explosions; • weather related hazards, such as hurricanes; and • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, such as an accidental discharge of hydrogen sulfide gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not insured against all environmental events that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not insured or fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our midstream operations would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our midstream energy business, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. Failure of the gas that we ship on our pipelines to meet the specifications of interconnecting interstate pipelines could result in curtailments by the interstate pipelines. The markets to which the shippers on our pipelines ship natural gas include interstate pipelines. These interstate pipelines establish specifications for the natural gas that they are willing to accept, which include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, temperature, and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. These specifications vary by interstate pipeline. If the total mix of natural gas shipped by the shippers on our pipeline fails to meet the specifications of a particular interstate pipeline, it may refuse to accept all or a part of the natural gas scheduled for delivery to it. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that gas or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming gas, potentially reducing our through-put volumes or revenues. Please see “Item 1 — Business.” 30 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, the threat of terrorist attacks, continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the magnitude of the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general and on us in particular are not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of natural gas supplies and markets for natural gas and NGLs and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs or the inability to retain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for specified periods of time. Many of these rights-of-way are perpetual in duration; others have terms ranging from five to ten years. Many are subject to rights of reversion in the case of non-utilization for periods ranging from one to three years. In addition, some of our processing facilities are located on leased premises. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or leases or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or to capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows and growth opportunities could be adversely affected. A successful challenge to the rates we charge on our Regency Intrastate Pipeline may reduce the amount of cash we generate. To the extent our Regency Intrastate Pipeline transports natural gas in interstate commerce, the rates, terms and conditions of that transportation service are subject to regulation by the FERC, pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA, which regulates, among other things, the provision of transportation services by an intrastate natural gas pipeline on behalf of an interstate natural gas pipeline. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation must be fair and equitable, and the FERC is required to approve the terms and conditions of the service. Rates established pursuant to Section 311 are generally analogous to the cost based rates FERC deems “just and reasonable” for interstate pipelines under the NGA. FERC may therefore apply its NGA policies to determine costs that can be included in cost of service used to establish Section 311 rates. These rate policies include the recent FERC policy on income tax allowance that permits interstate pipelines to include, as part of the cost of service, a full income tax allowance for all entities owning the utility asset provided such entities or individuals are subject to an actual or potential tax liability. If the Section 311 rates presently approved for Regency through May 1, 2008 are successfully challenged in a complaint or after such date the FERC disallows the inclusion of costs in the cost of service, changes its regulations or policies, or establishes more onerous terms and conditions applicable to Section 311 service, this may adversely affect our business. Any reduction in our rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, but FERC regulation still affects these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive regulatory policies. We cannot assure you, however, that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission service and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of regular litigation at FERC and in the courts and of policy discussions at FERC, so, in such circumstances, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities or our intrastate transportation pipeline may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. Such a change could result in increased regulation by FERC. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Our gathering lines are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in states in which we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, oil or natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. States in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Please read “Item 1 — Business — Regulation.” We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, management and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous materials and wastes, and the cleanup of contamination. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations, or incidents resulting in environmental releases, could cause us to incur substantial costs, penalties, fines and other criminal sanctions, third party claims for personal injury or property damage, investments to retrofit or upgrade our facilities and programs, or curtailment of operations. Certain environmental statutes, including CERCLA and comparable state laws, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to the necessity of handling natural gas and petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. We cannot be certain, however, that identification of presently unidentified conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Please read “Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Environmental matters” and “Item 7 — Management’s 32 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Other Matters — Environmental Matters.” If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. We became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on February 3, 2006. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of GAAP, but we do not become subject to certain of the internal controls standards applicable to most companies with publicly traded securities until 2008. We may not currently meet all those standards. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls compliance program may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, annually to review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Any failure to develop or maintain an effective internal controls compliance program or difficulties encountered in its implementation or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our conclusions under Section 404, or those of our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls. Ineffective internal controls subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the partnership interests and the equity in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make required payments on the senior notes depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, our credit facility and applicable state partnership and other laws and regulations. Pursuant to our credit facility, we may be required to establish cash reserves for the future payment of principal and interest on the amounts outstanding under our credit facility. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to pay the principal amount of the senior notes at maturity, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as a refinancing of the senior notes. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance the senior notes. Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. Our leverage is significant in relation to our partners’ capital. Our debt to capital ratio (calculated as total debt divided by the sum of total debt and partners’ capital) as of December 31, 2006 was 76 percent. As of March 22, 2007, our total outstanding long-term debt was $698,100,000. We will be prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under any of our indebtedness. Various limitations in our credit facility, as well as the indentures for the notes, may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Our leverage may adversely affect our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements, future acquisition, construction or development activities, or to otherwise fully realize the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive 33 Table of Contents terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage may also make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. Increases in interest rates, which have recently experienced record lows, could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, in order to make acquisitions, to reduce debt or for other purposes. During 2004 and 2005, the credit markets experienced 50-year record lows in interest rates. During the latter half of 2005 and in 2006, interest rates increased. If the overall economy continues to strengthen, monetary policy may tighten further, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation. The interest rate on our senior notes is fixed and the loans outstanding under our credit facility bear interest at a floating rate. An increase of 100 basis points in the LIBOR rate would increase our annual payment by $1,100,000. Additionally, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, the market price for our units will be affected by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, in order to make acquisitions, to reduce debt or for other purposes. You may not be able to sell large blocks of our common units in a single day without realizing a lower than expected sales price. During the six months ended March 15, 2007, the average daily volume of our common units traded on the NASDAQ was 43,000. The median of the daily volume for the same period was 39,200. The maximum and minimum daily volume for the same period was 120,400 and 8,500, respectively. If we are unable to increase the market demand for our equity securities, you may be adversely affected. We may not have the ability to raise funds necessary to finance any change of control offer required under our senior notes. If a change of control (as defined in the indenture) occurs, we will be required to offer to purchase our outstanding senior notes at 101 percent of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a purchase offer obligation arises under the indenture governing the senior notes, a change of control could also have occurred under the senior secured credit facilities, which could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar restrictions and provisions. If a purchase offer were required under the indenture for our debt, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the purchase price of all debt that we are required to purchase or repay. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STRUCTURE HM Capital Investors own 60.2 percent of the limited partner units outstanding and control 100 percent of our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. HM Capital Investors own 60.2 percent of the limited partner units outstanding and control 100 percent of our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, the HM Capital Investors. Conflicts of interest may arise between the HM Capital Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us, 34 Table of Contents on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the HM Capital Investors or their affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the HM Capital Investors, in resolving conflicts of interest; • HM Capital Investors and their affiliates may engage in competition with us; • our General Partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available to pay interest on, and principal of, the notes; • our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; and • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates. HM Capital Investors and their affiliates may compete directly with us. HM Capital Investors and their affiliates are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or independently with us. In addition, HM Capital Investors or their affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of any additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct or dispose of those assets. Our reimbursement of our general partner’s expenses will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us. Please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Directors Independence.” The reimbursement of expenses of our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited 35 Table of Contents call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it believes that the decision is in our best interests; • provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are currently unable to remove the general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 60.2 percent of the total of our common and subordinated units. Moreover, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of the general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of those unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the 36 Table of Contents ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the partners of our general partner from transferring their ownership in our general partner to a third party. The new partners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of Regency GP LLC with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interest. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation (which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us) to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner and its affiliates now own approximately 31.3 percent of the common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 60.2 percent of the common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. In most states, a limited partner is only liable if he participates in the “control” of the business of the partnership. These statutes generally do not define control, but do permit limited partners to engage in certain activities, including, among other actions, taking any action with respect to the dissolution of the partnership, the sale, exchange, lease or mortgage of any asset of the partnership, the admission or removal of the general partner 37 Table of Contents and the amendment of the partnership agreement. You could, however, be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to take other actions under our partnership agreement is found to constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the distribution, limited partners who received an impermissible distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make required contributions to the partnership other than contribution obligations that are unknown to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and that could not be ascertained from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. TAX RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON UNITS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for payment for distributions on our common units. Under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, a publicly traded partnership may be taxed as a corporation unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” exception that allows it to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we meet the “qualifying income” exception and currently expect to meet such exception for the foreseeable future. If the IRS were to disagree and if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we will be subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year ending in 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7 percent of our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce our cash flow. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We did not request a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our 38 Table of Contents costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a regulated investment company, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. You may be subject to state and local taxes and tax return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and do business in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Louisiana, and Colorado. Each of these states, other than Texas, currently imposes a personal income tax as well as an income tax on corporations and other entities. Texas imposes a franchise tax (which is based in part on net income) on 39 Table of Contents corporations and limited liability companies. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 