Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report in evaluating an investment in our common units. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursement of fees and expenses of our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales; • the prices of, level of production of, and demand for natural gas and NGLs; • the volumes of natural gas we gather, process and transport; • the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of fees and expenses of our general partner; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; • the level of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures incurred in connection with our enhancement projects; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. You should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. If we do not receive the revenues we anticipate from the Regency Intrastate Enhancement Project, our cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to you may be adversely affected. Our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distributions for 2006 assumes, among other things, the generation of revenues contemplated by the gas transportation contracts relating to our Regency Intrastate Enhancement Project. Our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distributions for 2006 also assumes the generation of the revenues contemplated by the contracts that we have entered into with our customers relating to the transportation of gas on our Regency Intrastate Pipeline. If any of the following were to occur, our forecast of these revenues would be adversely affected: • we are unable to perform the requisite transportation services for any reason, • in the case of interruptible transportation services, our customers fail to utilize our services in whole or in part, or • our customers fail to pay for our services for any reason, including financial distress. 26 Table of Contents While substantial amounts of the incremental capacity resulting from the completion of the Regency Intrastate Enhancement Project has been contracted, if we are unable to utilize the remaining incremental transportation capacity, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. We have agreed to provide natural gas transportation services to natural gas producers in the area upon completion of the Regency Intrastate Enhancement Project, which increased our capacity on the Regency Intrastate Pipeline from 200 MMcf/d to 800 MMcf/d. We have signed definitive agreements for 466,000 MMbtu/d of firm transportation and for 404,000 MMbtu/d of interruptible transportation. We are currently transporting approximately 450,000 MMbtu/d under these existing contracts. We are engaged in discussions with various shippers interested in contracting for portions of the uncommitted capacity on the system for firm transportation of natural gas volumes. If we are unable to commit the remaining uncommitted capacity on the system to firm gas transportation contracts and the parties to existing interruptible transportation contracts fail to utilize the capacity, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas, which involves factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas in our areas of operation could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells that supply our systems and from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our assets include: the level of successful drilling activity near these systems and our ability to compete with other gathering and processing companies for volumes from successful new wells. The level of natural gas drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. Currently, natural gas prices are high in relation to historical prices. For example, the twelve-month average of NYMEX daily settlement price of natural gas increased from $6.18 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2004 to $9.35 per MMBtu as of February 28, 2006. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and processing facilities and pipeline transportation systems, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budget limitations, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if additional natural gas reserves were discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we were not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to you. We depend on certain key producers and other customers for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, any of these key producers or customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on a limited number of producers and other customers for a significant portion of our natural gas supplies. Our three largest suppliers of natural gas by volume for the year ended December 31, 2005, Oxy USA Inc., Duke Energy Field Services LLC and ExxonMobil Corporation accounted for approximately 24% of our total natural gas supply. These contracts have terms that are either month-to-month or year-to-year. As these contracts expire, we will have to negotiate extensions or renewals or replace the contracts with those of other suppliers. We may be unable to obtain new or renewed contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the volumes of natural gas supplied by 27 Table of Contents these producers and other customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. In accordance with industry practice, we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering systems. Accordingly, volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make cash distributions to you. In accordance with industry practice, we do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated lives of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated lives of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. Natural gas, NGLs and other commodity prices are volatile, and a reduction in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to you. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. NGL prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The NYMEX daily settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2004 ranged from a high of $8.75 per MMBtu to a low of $4.57 per MMBtu. In 2005, the same index ranged from a high of $15.38 per MMBtu to a low of $5.79 per MMBtu. The NYMEX daily settlement price for crude oil for the prompt month contract in 2004 ranged from a high of $56.37 per barrel to a low of $32.49 per barrel. In 2005, the same index ranged from a high of $69.91 per barrel to a low of $42.16 per barrel. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Our natural gas gathering and processing businesses operate under two types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain an agreed percentage of the proceeds (in cash or in-kind) from the sale at market prices of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs or NGL products resulting from our processing activities. Under keep-whole arrangements, we receive the NGLs removed from the natural gas during our processing operations as the fee for providing our services in exchange for replacing the thermal content removed as NGLs with a like thermal content in pipeline-quality gas or its cash 28 Table of Contents equivalent. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, it is more profitable for us to process natural gas under keep-whole arrangements. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and of the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce our processing margins or reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants. For a detailed discussion of these arrangements, please read Item 1 “Business — Our Contracts.” In our gathering and processing operations, we purchase raw natural gas containing significant quantities of NGLs, process the raw natural gas and sell the processed gas and NGLs. If we are unsuccessful in balancing the purchase of raw natural gas with its component NGLs and our sales of pipeline quality gas and NGLs, our exposure to commodity price risks will increase. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering and processing systems and our transportation pipeline for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and utilities. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver promised volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes, or the natural gas price differential between the regions in which we operate could vary unexpectedly. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales not to be balanced. If our purchases and sales are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating results. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our hedging activities and our hedging activities may limit potential gains. In performing our functions in the Gathering and Processing segment, we are a seller of NGLs and are exposed to commodity price risk associated with downward movements in NGL prices. As a result of the volatility of NGL and other commodity prices in recent years, in December 2004, we initiated a plan to hedge a significant percentage of our total segment margin for the years 2005 to 2007. Under this plan, we executed swap contracts settled against ethane, propane, butane and natural gasoline market prices, supplemented with crude oil put options. (Historically, changes in the prices of heavy NGLs, such as natural gasoline, have generally correlated with changes in the price of crude oil.) As a result, we have hedged approximately 95% of our expected exposure to NGL prices in 2006, approximately 75% in 2007 and approximately 50% in 2008. We continually monitor our hedging and contract portfolio and expect to continue to adjust our hedge position as conditions warrant. Also, we may seek to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates by using financial derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms from time to time. Our hedging transactions are intended to reduce our exposure to downward movements in NGL prices. In exchange for this reduction in exposure, however, these transactions limit our potential gains if NGL prices rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In addition, even though our management monitors our hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect, or our hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. To the extent that we intend to grow internally through construction of new, or modification of existing, facilities, we may not be able to manage that growth effectively which could decrease our cash flow and our cash available for distribution. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to grow internally will depend on a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control. 29 Table of Contents In general, the construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems, and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control. Any project that we undertake may not be completed on schedule at budgeted cost or at all. Construction may occur over an extended period, and we are not likely to receive a material increase in revenues related to such project until it is completed. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon its completion because the anticipated growth in gas production that the project was intended to capture does not materialize, our estimates of the growth in production prove inaccurate or for other reasons. For any of these reasons, newly constructed or modified midstream facilities may not generate our expected investment return and that, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to you. In addition, our ability to undertake to grow in this fashion will depend on our ability to finance the construction or modification project and on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate these facilities when completed. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash per unit generated from operations. Factors affecting our ability to do so include our abilities: • To identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning gathering, compression, processing and pipeline assets for acquisitions and joint ventures; • to obtain required financing for acquisitions and joint ventures; • to outbid competitors for acquisition prospects; • to analyze acquisition and joint venture prospects successfully from both an operational and financial viewpoint; • to consummate acquisitions and joint ventures; • to integrate acquired businesses and assets with our existing operations and to subject them to our operating and financial systems and controls; and • to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our expanded business. In addition, even though we expect an acquisition to be accretive, it may not be. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including among others the following: • Mistaken assumptions regarding revenues and costs, including synergies; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from sellers; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties in operating in new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired business. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly if we consummate any acquisitions, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial or other relevant information that we will consider in determining to make those acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of midstream assets by large industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. 30 Table of Contents Because we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, our future growth may be limited. Since we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, we will depend on financing provided by commercial banks and other lenders and the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance any significant internal organic growth or acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing from these sources, our ability to grow will be limited. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in each of our areas of operations. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas than we do. In addition, our customers who are significant producers or consumers of NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Similarly, competitors may establish new connections with pipeline systems that would create additional competition for services we provide to our customers. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to you. Restrictions in our credit facility limit our ability to make distributions to you and our ability to capitalize on acquisitions and other business opportunities. Our bank credit facility prohibits us from making cash distributions during an event of default or if the payment of a distribution would cause an event of default. Our credit facility, as amended, allows us to make distributions as long as we are in compliance with the covenants in this agreement. In addition, it contains various covenants limiting our ability to incur indebtedness, to grant liens, and to engage in transactions with affiliates, as well as others requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Our payment of principal and interest on the debt will reduce the cash available for distribution on our units, as will our obligation to repay this debt upon the occurrence of specified events involving a change of control of our general partner. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Requirements.” We have a significant amount of debt that may limit our ability to grow. Our total outstanding long-term indebtedness under our credit facility was approximately $371.4 million at March 24, 2006. Our leverage and various limitations in our credit facility and our lack of an investment grade rating may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, engage in some transactions, and capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Please read Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Capital Requirements” and “— Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Increases in interest rates, which have recently experienced record lows, could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, make acquisitions, reduce debt or for other purposes. The credit markets recently have experienced 50-year record lows in interest rates. If the overall economy strengthens, it is likely that monetary policy will tighten further, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation. We expect our quarterly interest payments in 2006 to range between $6.1 and $6.5 million. An increase of 100 basis points in the LIBOR rate would increase this quarterly payment by approximately $0.4 million. Additionally, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, the market price for our units will be affected by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield- 31 Table of Contents oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, make acquisitions, reduce debt or for other purposes. If third-party pipelines interconnected to our processing plants become unavailable to transport NGLs, our cash flow and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines that provide delivery options to and from our processing plants for the benefit of our customers. For example: • all of the NGLs produced at our north Louisiana system are transported to Mont Belvieu on the Black Lake Pipeline, which is owned by BP Energy Company and Duke Energy Field Services; • all of the NGLs produced at the Waha processing plant are transported to Mont Belvieu by use of Louis Dreyfus’ pipeline and ExxonMobil Corporation’s NGL pipeline; and • all of the NGLs produced at our mid-continent processing plants are transported to the Conway Hub in Kansas by ONEOK Hydrocarbon Southwest L.L.C.’s NGL pipeline. If any of these pipelines become unavailable to transport the NGLs produced at our related processing plants, we would be required to find alternative means to transport the NGLs out of our processing plants, which could increase our costs, reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of NGLs or reduce our ability to process natural gas at these plants. For example, Hurricane Rita disrupted the operations of NGL pipelines and fractionators in the Houston, Texas area. As a result of these disruptions, we were forced temporarily to curtail producers in the west Texas region for approximately four days and to operate our north Louisiana processing assets in a reduced recovery mode for six days. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. For example, in January 2005, one of our customers filed for Chapter 11 reorganization under U.S. bankruptcy law although that customer has since emerged from bankruptcy court protection. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by this customer or our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to our gathering and processing facilities, pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of pipelines, measurement equipment or facilities at receipt or delivery points; • fires and explosions; • weather related hazards, such as hurricanes; and • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. 32 Table of Contents These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not insured against all environmental events that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not insured or fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our midstream operations would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our midstream energy business, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. Failure of the gas that we ship on our Regency Intrastate Pipeline to meet the specifications of interconnecting interstate pipelines could result in curtailments by the interstate pipelines. The markets to which the shippers on our Regency Intrastate Pipeline ship natural gas include interstate pipelines. These interstate pipelines establish specifications for the natural gas that they are willing to accept, which include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, temperature, and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. These specifications vary by interstate pipeline. If the total mix of natural gas shipped by the shippers on our pipeline fails to meet the specifications of a particular interstate pipeline, that pipeline may refuse to accept all or a part of the natural gas scheduled for delivery to it. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that gas or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming gas, potentially reducing our throughput volumes or revenues. Please see Item 1 “Business — Transportation Operations — Interstate Pipeline Specifications.” Terrorist attacks, the threat of terrorist attacks, continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks, on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of natural gas supplies and markets for natural gas and NGLs and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs or the inability to retain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for specified periods of time. Many of these rights-of-way are perpetual in duration; others have terms ranging from five to ten years. Many are subject to rights of reversion in the case of non-utilization for periods ranging from one to three years. In addition, some of our processing facilities are located on leased premises. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way 33 Table of Contents contracts or leases or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows and growth opportunities could be adversely affected. A successful challenge to the rates we charge on Regency Intrastate Pipeline may reduce the amount of cash we generate. To the extent our Regency Intrastate Pipeline transports natural gas in interstate commerce, the rates, terms and conditions of that transportation service are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or NGPA, which regulates, among other things, the provision of transportation services by an intrastate natural gas pipeline on behalf of an interstate natural gas pipeline. Under Section 311, rates charged for transportation must be fair and equitable, and the FERC is required to approve the terms and conditions of the service. Rates established pursuant to Section 311 are generally analogous to the cost based rates FERC deems “just and reasonable” for interstate pipelines under the Natural Gas Act or NGA. FERC may therefore apply its NGA policies to determine costs that can be included in cost of service used to establish Section 311 rates. These rate policies include the new FERC policy on income tax allowance that permits interstate pipelines to include, as part of the cost of service, a full income tax allowance for all entities owning the utility asset provided such entities or individuals are subject to an actual or potential tax liability. If the Section 311 rates presently approved for Regency through May 2008 are successfully challenged in a complaint or after such date the FERC disallows the inclusion of costs in the cost of service, changes its regulations or policies, or establishes more onerous terms and conditions applicable to Section 311 service, this may adversely affect our business. Any reduction in our rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you. A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, but FERC regulation still affects these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive regulatory policies. We cannot assure you, however, that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission service and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of regular litigation at FERC and the courts and of policy discussions at FERC, so, in such circumstances, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities or our intrastate transportation pipeline may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, and the courts or Congress. Such a change could result in increased regulation by FERC. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Our gathering lines are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in states in which we operate. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, oil or natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal 34 Table of Contents law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. States in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Please read Item 1 “Business — Regulation.” We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, (1) the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions, (2) the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the discharge of waste from our facilities and (3) the Comprehensive Environmental, Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. For example, in November 2005, we settled with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, or TCEQ, a notice of enforcement relating to the operation of the Waha processing plant in 2001 before it was acquired by us. In connection with this settlement, we agreed to construct an acid reinjection well, in which we will reinject emitted gases from the plant at a cost of $6.0 million. Please read Item 1 “Business — Regulation.” Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the Clean Air Act, RCRA, CERCLA and the federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to the necessity of handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. Please read Item 1 “Business — Environmental Matters” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Other Matters — Environmental.” If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. We became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on February 3, 2006. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of GAAP, but we do not become subject to certain of the internal controls standards applicable to most companies with publicly traded securities until after 2007. We may not currently meet all those standards. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to prevent fraud and to 35 Table of Contents operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, annually to review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our conclusions, or those of our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls. Ineffective internal controls subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. See “Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.” Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us The HM Capital Investors own a 60.3% limited partner interest in us and control our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests to your detriment. The HM Capital Investors own a 60.3% limited partner interest in us and control our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner (who together own an economic interest in our general partner of 8.4%) have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, the HM Capital Investors. Conflicts of interest may arise between the HM Capital Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the HM Capital Investors or their affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as the HM Capital Investors, in resolving conflicts of interest; • the HM Capital Investors and their affiliates may engage in competition with us; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or growth capital expenditure, which does not, which determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; 36 Table of Contents • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us. The HM Capital Investors and their affiliates may compete directly with us. The HM Capital Investors and their affiliates are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or independently with us. In addition, the HM Capital Investors or their affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of any additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct or dispose of those assets. Our reimbursement of our general partner’s expenses will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us. Please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.” The reimbursement of expenses of our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it believes that the decision is in our best interests; • provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general 37 Table of Contents partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are currently unable to remove the general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3 % of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 60.3% of the total of our common and subordinated units. Moreover, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of the general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of those unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the partners of our general partner from transferring their ownership in our general partner to a third party. The new partners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of Regency GP LLC with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. 38 Table of Contents We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interest. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation (which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us) to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner and its affiliates now own approximately 20.7% of the common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 60.3% of the common units. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. In most states, a limited partner is only liable if he participates in the “control” of the business of the partnership. These statutes generally do not define control, but do permit limited partners to engage in certain activities, including, among other actions, taking any action with respect to the dissolution of the partnership, the sale, exchange, lease or mortgage of any asset of the partnership, the admission or removal of the general partner and the amendment of the partnership agreement. You could, however, be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • your right to act with other unitholders to take other actions under our partnership agreement is found to constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of 39 Table of Contents our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the distribution, limited partners who received an impermissible distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make required contributions to the partnership other than contribution obligations that are unknown to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and that could not be ascertained from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. We have no significant history operating as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the stock exchanges and markets, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we are required to have three independent directors, create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur will be $2.5 million annually. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, treats us as a corporation or we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We did not request, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 40 Table of Contents A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We did not request a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a regulated investment company, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will take depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. 41 Table of Contents You may be subject to state and local taxes and tax return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and do business in Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Louisiana, and Colorado. Each of these states, other than Texas, currently imposes a personal income tax as well as an income tax on corporations and other entities. Texas imposes a franchise tax (which is based in part on net income) on corporations and limited liability companies. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. This item is not applicable to the registrant. 