ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition to the risk factors discussed below, investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties presented under the following caption, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Factors Influencing Our Results of Operations and Cash Flows,” and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report which are incorporated herein by reference.2012 FORM 10-K / 9Business and Operating RisksOur cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.Under the REIT rules, to remain qualified as a REIT, a REIT must distribute, within a certain period after the end of each year, 90% of its ordinary taxable income for such year. Our REIT income, however, consists primarily of net capital gains resulting from payments received under timber cutting contracts with Potlatch TRS and third parties, rather than ordinary taxable income. Therefore, unlike most REITs, we are not required to distribute material amounts of cash to remain qualified as a REIT. If, after giving effect to our distributions, we have not distributed an amount equal to 100% of our REIT ordinary taxable income and net capital gains income, then we would be required to pay tax on the undistributed portion of such taxable income at regular corporate tax rates and our stockholders would be required to include their proportionate share of any undistributed capital gain in income and would receive a credit or refund for their share of the tax paid by us.Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines the actual amount of distributions to be made to stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions in our industry and in the markets for our products, tax considerations, borrowing capacity, debt covenant restrictions, timber prices, harvest levels on our timberlands, market demand for timberlands, including timberland properties we have identified as potentially having a higher and better use, and future acquisitions and dispositions. For example, our board of Directors reduced our quarterly cash distributions to stockholders effective December 2011 as a result of our decision to reduce harvest levels in response to continued market weakness. For a description of debt covenants that could limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders in the future, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Consequently, the level of future distributions to our stockholders may fluctuate, and any reduction in the distribution rate may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results and cash flows will be materially affected by the fluctuating nature of timber prices.Our results of operations and cash flows will be materially affected by the fluctuating nature of timber prices. A variety of factors affect prices for timber, including factors affecting demand, such as changes in economic conditions, the level of domestic new construction and remodeling activity, foreign demand, interest rates, credit availability, population growth, weather conditions and pest infestation, as well as changes in timber supply and other factors. All of these factors can vary by region, timber type (sawlogs or pulpwood logs) and species.Timber prices are also affected by changes in timber availability at the local, national and international level. Our timberland ownership is currently concentrated in Arkansas, Idaho and Minnesota. In Arkansas and Minnesota, most timberlands are privately owned. Historically, increases in timber prices have often resulted in substantial increases in harvesting on private timberlands, including lands not previously made available for commercial timber operations, causing a short-term increase in supply that has tended to moderate price increases. Decreases in timber prices have often resulted in lower harvest levels, causing short-term decreases in supply that have tended to moderate price decreases. In Idaho, where a greater proportion of timberland is government owned, any substantial increase in timber harvesting from government-owned land could significantly reduce timber prices, which would harm our results of operations. For more than 20 years, environmental concerns and other factors have limited timber sales by federal agencies, which historically had been major suppliers of timber to the U.S. forest products industry, particularly in the West. Any reversal of policy that substantially increases timber sales from government-owned land could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. On a local level, timber supplies can fluctuate depending upon factors such as changes in weather conditions and harvest strategies of local timberland owners, as well as occasionally high timber salvage efforts due to events such as unusual pest infestations or fires. Also, demand in other parts of the world may affect timber prices in the markets in which we compete. For example, during the past few years, demand from Asia has remained steady, and although we do not sell into the Asian markets, Asian demand has affected supply and demand in the markets in which we participate. A decrease in Asian demand may have a negative impact on lumber and timber prices in the markets in which we compete.The cyclical nature of our business could adversely affect our results of operations.The financial performance of our operations is affected by the cyclical nature of our business. The markets for timber, real estate and manufactured wood products are influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control. The 10 / POTLATCH CORPORATIONdemand for our timber and wood products is affected by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, home repair and remodeling activity, which are subject to fluctuations due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, credit availability, population growth, weather conditions and other factors. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets. The supply of timber and logs has historically increased during favorable pricing environments, which then causes downward pressure on prices. The demand for real estate can be affected by changes in factors such as interest rates, credit availability and economic conditions, as well as by the impact of federal, state and local land use and environmental protection laws. Historical prices for our wood products have been volatile, and we have limited direct influence over the timing and extent of price changes for our wood products.We may be unable to harvest timber or we may elect to reduce harvest levels due to market conditions, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Our timber harvest levels and sales may be limited due to weather conditions, timber growth cycles, restrictions on access, availability of contract loggers, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources, as well as by other factors, including damage by fire, insect infestation, disease and natural disasters such as ice storms, wind storms, hurricanes and floods. Changes in global climate conditions could intensify one or more of these factors. Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized, affecting only a limited percentage of our timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will be limited. Our financial results and cash flows are dependent to a significant extent on our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels.On a short-term basis, we may adjust our timber harvest levels in response to market conditions. For example, in 2011, in response to weak demand and low prices, we shifted a portion of our harvest from our Southern region to our Northern region to capture better pricing opportunities. In 2012, due to continuing poor market conditions and the resulting closure of a significant customer's mill in Arkansas, we reduced our overall timber harvest to 3.6 million tons from 4.1 million tons in 2011. We expect to continue harvesting at a level of approximately 3.8 million tons in 2013 while we wait for further improvement in log prices. We anticipate increasing harvest levels to approximately 4.6 million tons annually in the next several years, as market conditions continue to improve along with increasing housing starts. We also experience seasonally lower harvest activity during the winter and early spring due to weather conditions. Longer term, our timber harvest levels will be affected by acquisitions of additional timberlands, such as the two Arkansas purchases in 2012, and sales of existing timberlands, such as the conservation sale of HBU properties in Minnesota in 2012, or timber deed sales. In addition to timberland acquisitions and sales, future timber harvest levels may be affected by changes in estimates of long-term sustainable yield because of silvicultural advances, natural disasters, fires and other hazards, regulatory constraints and other factors beyond our control. We do not insure against losses of standing timber from any causes.The volume and value of timber that can be harvested from our lands may be affected by natural disasters such as fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, hurricanes, floods and other weather conditions and causes beyond our control. As is typical in the forest industry, we assume substantially all risk of loss to the standing timber we own from fire and other hazards because insuring for such losses is not practicable. Consequently, a reduction in our timber inventory could adversely affect our financial results and cash flows.Changes in demand for our real estate and delays in the timing of real estate transactions may affect our revenues and operating results.A number of factors, including availability of credit, a slowing of residential real estate development, population shifts and changes in demographics could reduce the demand for our real estate and negatively affect our results of operations. Changes in investor interest in purchasing timberlands could reduce our ability to execute sales of non-strategic timberlands and could also negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of current laws, or the enactment of new laws, regarding the use and development of real estate, or changes in the political composition of federal, state and local governmental bodies could lead to new or greater costs, delays and liabilities that could materially adversely affect our real estate business, profitability or financial condition. In addition, there are inherent uncertainties in the timing of real estate transactions that could adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter. The timing of real estate sales is a function of many factors, including the general state of the economy, demand in local real estate markets, the number of properties listed for sale, the 2012 FORM 10-K / 11seasonal nature of sales, the plans of adjacent landowners and our expectations of future price appreciation. Delays in the completion of transactions or the termination of potential transactions may be beyond our control. These events could adversely affect our operating results.We may be unsuccessful in carrying out our acquisition strategy.We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, acquisitions of strategic timberland properties. We compete with buyers that have substantially greater financial resources than we have for timberland and other real estate acquisition opportunities. We intend to finance acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facility, proceeds from equity or debt offerings, or proceeds from asset dispositions, or any combination thereof. In addition, it is uncertain whether any timberland acquisitions we make will perform in accordance with our expectations. The failure to identify and complete acquisitions of suitable timberland properties, our inability to finance future acquisitions on favorable terms or our inability to complete like-kind exchanges, could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.Our wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers.Because commodity products have few distinguishing properties from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand and competition from substitute products. Prices for our products are affected by many factors outside of our control, and we have no influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which often are volatile. Our profitability with respect to these products depends, in part, on managing our costs, particularly raw material and energy costs, which represent significant components of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control.Design value changes may affect the demand for southern yellow pine.In January 2012, the American Lumber Standards Committee, or ALSC, adopted reduced design values for visually graded southern yellow pine 2x4 lumber, effective June 1, 2012, and in January 2013, the ALSC heard testimony related to a proposal to reduce design values for all other visually graded southern yellow pine lumber. It is anticipated that if the ALSC adopts reduced design values for other visually graded southern yellow pine lumber, it will provide a six-month transition period to support an orderly transition to new design values. Our Southern timberlands contain predominantly southern yellow pine, and we sell visually graded southern yellow pine lumber. At this time it is unknown what impact the decision will have on demand for southern yellow pine lumber. Implementation of the design value reductions could result in an increase in product substitution or species substitution and could adversely affect demand for visually graded southern yellow pine.The forest products industry is highly competitive.The markets for our wood products are highly competitive, and companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do compete with us in each of our lines of business. Our wood products are subject to competition from wood products manufacturers in the United States, and to a lesser extent in Canada. After years of trade disputes over Canadian lumber imports, the United States and Canada signed an agreement, which has been extended to 2015, establishing a system of tiered taxes and volume restrictions relating to Canadian lumber imports to the United States. Notwithstanding the signing of this agreement, there can be no assurance that it will at all times, or at any time, effectively create a fair trade environment. The London Court of International Arbitration has twice ruled that Canada has violated the Softwood Lumber Agreement, or SLA. In addition, our wood products manufacturing facilities are relatively capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs and generally results in continued production as long as prices are sufficient to cover variable costs. These conditions have contributed to substantial price competition, particularly during periods of reduced demand. Some of our wood products competitors may currently be lower-cost producers than we are, and accordingly these competitors may be less adversely affected than we are by price decreases. Wood products also are subject to significant competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products. To the extent there is a significant increase in competitive pressure from substitute products or other domestic or foreign suppliers, our business could be adversely affected. Our businesses are affected by transportation availability and costs.Our business depends on the availability of logging contractors and providers of transportation of wood products, and is materially affected by the cost of these service providers. Therefore, increases in the cost of fuel could negatively impact our financial results by increasing the cost associated with logging activities and transportation services, and could also result in an overall reduction in the availability of these services.12 / POTLATCH CORPORATIONA material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages, prolonged power failures, equipment failures, labor difficulties, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels, fire, ice storms, floods, windstorms, hurricanes or other catastrophes, terrorism or threats of terrorism, governmental regulations and other operational problems.Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and income.Our businesses are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations.Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding protection of the environment, including those relating to the protection of timberlands, endangered species, timber harvesting practices, recreation and aesthetics, protection and restoration of natural resources, air and water quality, and remedial standards for contaminated soil, sediments and groundwater. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in significant fines or penalties, as well as liabilities for remediation of contaminated sites, natural resource damages, or alleged personal injury or property damage claims.Laws, regulations and related judicial decisions and administrative interpretations affecting our business are subject to change and new laws and regulations that may affect our business are frequently enacted. These changes may adversely affect our ability to harvest and sell timber and operate our manufacturing facilities and may adversely affect the ability of others to develop property we intend to sell for higher and better use purposes. Over time, the complexity and stringency of these laws and regulations have increased markedly and the enforcement of these laws and regulations has intensified. We believe that these laws and regulations will continue to become more restrictive and over time could adversely affect our operating results.Regulatory restrictions on future harvesting activities may be significant. Federal, state and local laws and regulations, which are intended to protect threatened and endangered species, as well as waterways and wetlands, limit and may prevent timber harvesting, road building and other activities on our timberlands. For example, the Clean Water Act and comparable state laws, regulations and best management practices programs protect water quality. As a result, our resource management activities adjacent to rivers and streams as well as the point source discharges from our manufacturing facilities are subject to strict regulation. Most silvicultural activities are defined by regulation to be “non-point sources” and thus do not require federal permits from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, but rather are subject to state regulation and best management practices programs. Recent litigation, however, has challenged this silvicultural exemption under the Clean Water Act, and in 2011 the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the EPA's silvicultural exemption. The United States Supreme Court heard an oral argument on the case in December 2012. In December 2012, just prior to the Supreme Court oral argument, the EPA issued a rule clarifying that logging and forest roads do not require mandatory permits for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activities. A lawsuit was filed in the Ninth Circuit in January 2013 challenging the EPA rule. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our forest management activities will not be subject to increased regulation under the Clean Water Act in the future. Similarly, the threatened and endangered species restrictions apply to activities that would adversely impact a protected species or significantly degrade its habitat. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws. If current or future regulations or their enforcement become more restrictive, the amount of our timberlands subject to harvest restrictions could increase.We anticipate that increasingly strict laws and regulations relating to the environment, natural resources and forestry operations, as well as increased social concern over environmental issues, may result in additional restrictions on us leading to increased costs, additional capital expenditures and reduced operating flexibility.Our manufacturing operations are subject to stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits covering air emissions, wastewater discharge, water usage, and waste handling and disposal that govern how we operate our facilities. These laws, regulations and permits, now and in the future, may restrict our current production and limit our ability to increase production, and impose significant costs on our operations with respect to environmental compliance. For example, in December 2012, the EPA issued new Major Source Boiler Maximum Achievable 2012 FORM 10-K / 13Control Technology, or Boiler MACT, rules that could require capital investments at our Wood Products manufacturing facilities. These rules are effective in early 2016. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of compliance with these new rules because we are still in the process of reviewing the new rules as they apply to our wood products manufacturing facilities, however, the capital investments required to comply with the new rules could be significant. Overall, it is expected that environmental compliance costs will likely increase over time as environmental requirements become more stringent, and as the expectations of the communities in which we operate become more demanding.Certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, impose strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, liability on responsible parties, including current and former owners and operators of contaminated sites, for costs of investigation and remediation of contamination. They also impose liability for related damages to natural resources. We have in the past been identified by the EPA as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA at various locations, and we are currently identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with one of our properties. Additional information regarding this matter is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, and that information is incorporated herein by reference. It is possible that other facilities we own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, or timberlands we now own or acquire, could also become subject to liabilities under these laws. The cost of investigation and remediation of contaminated properties could increase operating costs and adversely affect our financial results. Although we believe we have appropriate reserves recorded for the investigation and remediation of known matters, there can be no assurance that actual expenditures will not exceed our expectations, that reserves will not be increased, or that other unknown liabilities will not be discovered in the future.Environmental groups and interested individuals may intervene in the regulatory processes in the locations where we own timberland and operate our wood products mills. Delays or restrictions on our operations due to the intervention of environmental groups or interested individuals could adversely affect our operating results. In addition to intervention in regulatory proceedings, interested parties may file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from obtaining permits, implementing capital improvements or pursuing operating plans or to require us to obtain permits before pursuing operating plans. Any lawsuit, or even a threatened lawsuit, could delay harvesting on our timberlands or impact our ability to operate or invest in our wood products mills.Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded.As a result of the steep downturn in the stock market in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the resulting effects on long-term interest rates and discount rates, our defined benefit pension plans have been underfunded since December 31, 2008, as the projected benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. As a result of the underfunding, we may be required to make contributions to our qualified pension plans. We contributed $21.6 million and $9.4 million, respectively, to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2012 and 2011. We funded the 2012 contribution by taking a loan against our company owned life insurance plan, or COLI, based on the cash surrender value that has accumulated in the plan over the years. We are not required to make contributions during 2013 to our qualified defined benefit plans. However, we will be making payments of approximately $1.8 million for our non-qualified pension plan. The determination of pension plan expense and the requirements for funding our pension plans are based on a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions are the expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate applied to pension plan obligations. Pension plan assets primarily consist of equity and fixed income investments, so fluctuations in actual equity market returns and changes in long-term interest rates may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase future pension costs. Changes in any of these factors may significantly impact future contribution requirements.We depend on external sources of capital for future growth.Our ability to finance growth is dependent to a significant degree on external sources of capital. Our ability to access such capital on favorable terms could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including a decline in general market conditions, decreased market liquidity, a downgrade to our public debt rating, increases in interest rates, an unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, a decrease in our current or estimated future earnings or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividend distributions. Any of these factors, individually or 14 / POTLATCH CORPORATIONin combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, and the failure to obtain necessary capital could materially adversely affect our future growth.A strike or other work stoppage, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 18% of our workforce was covered by one collective bargaining agreement, which expires in May 2016. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement on favorable terms. If we are unable to negotiate an acceptable new agreement with the union upon expiration of the existing contract, we could experience a strike or work stoppage. Even if we are successful in negotiating a new agreement, the new agreement could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of operations at our facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of our major customers or suppliers could also have similar effects on us.Risks Related to Our IndebtednessOur indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to make distributions to stockholders and fulfill our debt obligations, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs.Our debt requires interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2012, we had long-term debt of $357.6 million, including current installments on long-term debt of $8.4 million. Subject to the limits contained in our debt instruments, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our indebtedness could intensify.Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness or to make distributions to our stockholders. Our indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences for stockholders. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for distributions to stockholders, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes;•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; and•limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for distributions to stockholders, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes.Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. Downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading could limit our access to the credit markets, increase our cost of financing, and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.2012 FORM 10-K / 15REIT and Tax-Related RisksIf we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, income from our timberlands will be subject to taxation at regular corporate rates and we will have reduced funds available for distribution to our stockholders.Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations, including satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements, on a continuing basis. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will remain qualified as a REIT.In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or Treasury. Changes to the tax laws affecting REITs or taxable REIT subsidiaries, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our stockholders or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our stockholders or us. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, the determination of the amount of REIT taxable income or the amount of tax paid by the TRS.If in any taxable year we fail to remain qualified as a REIT:•we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and•we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, including any applicable alternative minimum tax.Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost, unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions. As a result, net income and the funds available for distribution to our stockholders could be reduced for up to five years, which would have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock.Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to a prohibited transactions tax on 100% of our net income derived from such activities, which would reduce our cash flow and impair our ability to make distributions.REITs are generally intended to be passive entities and can thus only engage in those activities permitted by the Internal Revenue Code, which for us generally include owning and managing a timberland portfolio, growing timber and selling standing timber.Accordingly, the manufacture and sale of wood products, certain types of timberland sales, and the harvest and sale of logs are conducted through Potlatch TRS because such activities generate non-qualifying REIT income and could constitute “prohibited transactions” if such activities were engaged in directly by the REIT. In general, prohibited transactions are defined by the Internal Revenue Code to be sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business.By conducting our business in this manner, we believe we will satisfy the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and thus avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to Potlatch TRS. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur, which would adversely affect our cash flow and impair our ability to make quarterly distributions.Our REIT structure may limit our ability to invest in our non-REIT qualifying operations.Our use of Potlatch TRS enables us to continue to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities consisting primarily of our manufacturing facilities, assets used for the harvesting of timber and the sale of logs, and selected land parcels that we expect to be sold or developed for higher and better use purposes. However, under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. This may limit our ability to make investments in our wood products manufacturing operations or in other non-REIT qualifying operations.16 / POTLATCH CORPORATIONOur ability to fund distributions and service our indebtedness using cash generated through our taxable REIT subsidiary may be limited.The rules with which we must comply to maintain our status as a REIT limit our ability to use dividends from Potlatch TRS for the payment of stockholder distributions and to service our indebtedness. In particular, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from sales of our standing timber and other types of real estate income. No more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividends from Potlatch TRS and other non-qualifying types of income. This requirement may limit our ability to receive dividends from Potlatch TRS and may impact our ability to fund distributions to stockholders and service the REIT's indebtedness using cash from Potlatch TRS.We may not be able to complete desired like-kind exchange transactions for property we sell.We sometimes seek to match sales and acquisitions of properties, which allows us to use Internal Revenue Code section 1031 like-kind exchange tax-deferred treatment. The matching of sales and purchases provides us with significant tax benefits, primarily the deferral of any gain on the property sold until the ultimate disposition or harvest of the replacement property. While we may attempt to complete like-kind exchanges when it is appropriate, it is unlikely that we will be able to do so in all instances due to various factors, including the lack of availability of suitable replacement property on acceptable terms and the inability to complete a qualifying like-kind exchange transaction within the time frames required by the Internal Revenue Code. The inability to obtain like-kind exchange treatment could result in the payment of taxes with respect to REIT property sold in 2014 and 2015, and a corresponding reduction in income and cash available for distribution to stockholders.We may not be able to realize our deferred tax assets.We may not have sufficient future taxable income to realize all our deferred tax assets. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which our temporary differences are deductible as governed by the tax code. The amount of our deferred tax assets could be reduced in the near term if future taxable income does not materialize and/or management is unable to implement one or more strategies that it has identified to generate taxable income. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information about our deferred tax assets.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under “Business and Operating Risks” and the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors’ operating results, announcements by us or our competitors of capacity changes, acquisitions or strategic investments, our growth rate and our competitors’ growth rates, the financial markets and general economic conditions, changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or the forest products industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock, failure to pay cash dividends or the amount of cash dividends paid, sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock, and changes in accounting principles.In addition, there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in the forest products industry that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile take over attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interest of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate or incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:•a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms;2012 FORM 10-K / 17•the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;•stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent and stockholders cannot call a special meeting except upon the written request of stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all of the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting;•advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;•removal of directors only for cause;•allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors;•in order to facilitate the preservation of our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, a prohibition on any single stockholder, or any group of affiliated stockholders, from beneficially owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding common or preferred stock, unless our board waives or modifies this ownership limitation;•unless approved by the vote of at least 80% of our outstanding shares, we may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of assets, certain issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the voting power of our outstanding common stock; and•supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.18 / POTLATCH CORPORATION