ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the price of our common shares could decline significantly and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 33 Our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America applicable to a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. The historical consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. The assessment of our ability to continue as a going concern was made by management considering, among other factors: the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries, the litigation facing Majestic Capital and its subsidiaries, regulatory filings and actions being taken by the CA DOI, and our budgets and financial projections of future operations, including the likelihood of achieving operating profitability without the need for additional financing. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in the past. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced a net loss of $48.6 million and negative cash flows from operations of $47.5 million. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that our business will become profitable in the future and that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred. If these trends continue in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For periods subsequent to December 31, 2010, we expect losses to continue while Majestic Insurance is in conservation under the CA DOI, if we are unable to write new business or renew existing business as a B rated insurance company, if our loss ratios do not improve and we are not able to reduce other operating expenses and overhead sufficiently to a level in line with our level of revenues. If we are unable to increase revenues sufficiently or decrease our expenditures to a sustainable level, our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity will continue to be materially adversely affected. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We continue to evaluate the sale of certain of our assets and businesses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in finding suitable purchasers for the sale of such assets or that the proceeds of any such sale will provide a return for our shareholders. An inability to consummate asset sales could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we are able to find purchasers, we could be required to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or Bermuda Companies Act if the proceeds of the sales of assets or businesses are insufficient to meet creditor demands. We could potentially be required to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, either through a prepackaged plan of reorganization or under an alternative plan, which could include liquidation. Due to the termination of the Bayside Amalgamation Agreement and our lack of success in securing an alternative transaction, we may seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or Bermuda Companies Act, either through a prepackaged plan of reorganization or under an alternative plan, which could include liquidation. Substantial risks would result from any such bankruptcy filing, including the risk that the equity interests of our current shareholders would be completely eliminated. Our auditors have issued a disclaimer of opinion with respect to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 which could lead investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our auditors have issued a disclaimer of opinion with respect to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. This disclaimer of opinion may cause our investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Insurance Business The following risk factors are applicable if Majestic Insurance reemerges from the conservation and rehabilitation actions initiated by the CA DOI and we recommence our insurance operations. 34 Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our losses. If we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses we insure, our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses and we may fail to establish appropriate premium rates. We establish loss reserves in our financial statements that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured and reinsured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. Our loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process are the average cost of claims over time (which are referred to as severity trends and include the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs); frequency risks; fluctuations in inflation; prevailing economic, social and judicial trends; legislative changes; third party claims handling procedures; costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process; and other third party factors beyond our control. If there are unfavorable changes in our key assumptions, our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses might need to be increased. In addition, loss reserves associated workers’ compensation claims carry additional uncertainty as compared to loss reserves associated with other types of insurance. Workers’ compensation claims are “long-tail” in nature such that claims are often paid over a long period of time. Further, there are no policy limits on liability for workers’ compensation claims. Accordingly, estimating reserves for insurance of workers’ compensation claims can be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other lines of insurance with shorter or more definite periods between the occurrence of the claim and the final determination of the ultimate loss and with policy limits for claim amounts. As a result, there is a greater risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and that our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. Further, we have limited operating histories in certain areas of our business that can lead to additional uncertainty with our loss reserves. We rely on a combination of industry data and benchmarks and limited operating history for policies written in states other than California. Consequently, operational changes in claims handling practices over the years may impact the interpretation of this historical data, which can also be impacted by external forces such as legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. Additionally, our actual loss experience in this line of business could be materially higher than industry loss experience, and therefore we are exposed to an increased likelihood that our actual results may not conform to our estimates. Additionally, Twin Bridges reinsures insurance policies written by Majestic Insurance and we are exposed to a greater share of these losses, since, on a consolidated basis, we remain responsible for 100% of any losses under the insurance policies issued by Majestic. Any underestimate of our loss reserves for this risk would have a greater impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position than if Majestic Insurance reinsured with an unaffiliated third party. The increased overall exposure to losses from large and/or frequent loss occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent our loss reserves for Majestic Insurance or Twin Bridges are insufficient to cover actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to increase our loss reserves which would result in a charge to our earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been, and will continue to be, necessary to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and related expenses. If we do not effectively price our insurance policies, our financial results will be adversely affected. Our insurance policy prices are established when coverage is initiated. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses, and to earn a profit. Our prices for insurance coverage are based on estimates of expected losses generated from the policies which we underwrite. We analyze many factors when pricing a policy, including the policyholder’s prior loss history, and the loss prevention orientation of the policyholder’s management. Inaccurate information regarding a policyholder’s past claims experience puts us at risk of mispricing our policies. When initiating coverage on a policyholder, we rely on the claims information provided by the policyholder or previous carriers to estimate future claims expense. If the claims information is not accurately stated, we may under price our policy by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Besides the risks associated with under-pricing risks, we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In addition, our competitors may adopt premium rate reductions that are greater than ours. In any of these scenarios, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected. Finally, the rating actions of state regulatory authorities have a material impact on the pricing of our policies. See “Workers’ Compensation Market Conditions” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis” for a discussion of rating actions. 35 Our insurance operations and premiums could be significantly affected by the ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions in the U.S. Our insurance operations and financial performance may be impacted by changes in the U.S. economy. Although there have been some indicators of stabilization, the U.S. continues to experience significant recessionary conditions and we believe meaningful risk remains of potential further deterioration in economic conditions. The significant downturn in the U.S. economy during the end of 2008 through 2010 led to lower reported payrolls, which has had a negative impact on our net earned premiums that continued through 2010. If our customers reduce their workforce levels, the level of workers’ compensation insurance coverage they require and, as a result the premiums that we charge, would be reduced, and if our customers cease operations, they will not renew their policies. It is uncertain if economic conditions will deteriorate further, or when economic conditions will improve. A prolonged recession could further reduce payrolls, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The downgrade in the A.M. Best ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries could further reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, insurers, reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of our insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common shares and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares. Our insurance companies’ financial strength ratings were downgraded by A.M. Best in March 2011. A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength rating of Majestic Insurance to “B” (Fair) from “B++” (Good) and the financial strength rating of Twin Bridges to “B” (Fair) from “B+” (Good). Both ratings were placed under review with negative implications. The rating actions reflected A.M. Best’s concern over the potential impact on Majestic Insurance and Twin Bridges due to the failure to close the Bayside transaction, the poor operating results of our insurance subsidiaries and regulatory and litigation issues faced by their affiliates, CRM, CRM CA and Majestic Capital. For a further discussion of A.M. Best’s rating actions, see “Item 1. Business – Ratings” above. The ratings assigned by A.M. Best can be an important factor in marketing our products. The reduction of Majestic Insurance’s A.M. Best rating below “B++” constitutes a “non-secure” rating in A.M. Best’s system. In this category, we will not be able to compete for many policies that were available to us when our rating was “B++” or better. Accordingly, we could experience a significant decline in our net earned premiums. Furthermore, our ratings remain subject to further change at any time. Majestic’s and Twin Bridges’ rating are currently assigned an “under review with negative implications” rating modifier. Our ratings could be further revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Our ability to retain our existing business and to attract new business in our insurance operations depends largely on these ratings. Our failure to maintain our ratings, or any other adverse development with respect to our ratings, including a further downgrade, could cause our current and future independent agents and brokers and insureds to choose to transact their business with competitors of ours that have higher A.M. Best ratings. If A.M. Best further downgrades our ratings, our competitive viability would be further damaged and our ability to sell our products would decline. If that happens, our revenues would decrease substantially and our operating losses would increase. 36 In addition, because lenders and reinsurers will also use our A.M. Best ratings as a factor in deciding whether to transact business with us, the failure of Majestic Insurance or Twin Bridges to maintain their current ratings could dissuade a lender or reinsurance company from conducting business with us or might increase our interest or reinsurance costs. As a result of any of the foregoing, our business revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain or collect on our reinsurance protection, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance coverage to help manage the risk assumed under our workers’ insurance compensation policies issued by Majestic Insurance. Reinsurance coverage helps to protect us from the impact of large losses. It involves an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk by sharing premiums with another insurance company, called the reinsurer. Conversely, the reinsurer receives or assumes reinsurance from the ceding company. Majestic Insurance currently purchases excess of loss reinsurance and historically participated in ceded quota share agreements. Under excess of loss reinsurance, the reinsurer reimburses the ceding company for losses and loss expenses over a specified dollar amount up to an agreed limit per occurrence. Under quota share reinsurance, the reinsurer, or assuming company, accepts a pro rata share of the insurer’s, or ceding company’s, losses and an equal share of the applicable premiums. For a discussion of Majestic’s reinsurance coverage, see “Item 1. Business – Primary Insurance Segment – Reinsurance” above. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and our experience with insured losses and may vary significantly. As a result of catastrophic events, such as the events of September 11, 2001, we may incur significantly higher reinsurance costs, more restrictive terms and conditions and decreased availability. We review and renegotiate our reinsurance protection each year. We cannot be certain, however, that our reinsurance agreements will be renewed or replaced prior to their expiration upon terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to renew or replace our reinsurance agreements upon terms satisfactory to us, our net liability on individual risks would increase and we would have greater exposure to catastrophic losses. If this were to occur, our underwriting results would be subject to greater variability and our underwriting capacity could be reduced. These consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The decrease in Majestic Insurance’s A.M. Best rating to “B” could cause the terms of the contracts to be more restrictive and the price for coverage to be higher. These conditions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to Majestic Insurance’s reinsurers. Reinsurance protection that Majestic Insurance receives does not discharge its direct obligations under its insurance policies, as Majestic Insurance remains liable to its policyholders even if we are unable to recover under Majestic Insurance’s reinsurance contracts. Losses may not be recovered from the reinsurers until claims are paid, and, in the case of long-term workers’ compensation cases, the creditworthiness of the reinsurers may change and we may not recover amounts to which we are entitled. As of December 31, 2010, Majestic Insurance had $130.4 million recoverable from its unaffiliated reinsurers that we would be obligated to pay if the reinsurers failed to pay Majestic. If we experience these problems in the future, our charges to income would increase and our net income would decline. These consequences would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. As of December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio, including cash and cash equivalents, had a carrying value of $287.8 million. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we had $10.6 million of net investment income from continuing operations. 37 Our investment portfolios funds are invested by a professional investment management firm under the direction of our management team in accordance with investment guidelines approved by the Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. Beginning in 2008, the capital markets in the United States and elsewhere experienced extreme volatility and disruption. We are exposed to significant capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices. Our investment portfolio is affected by the changes in the capital markets. In addition, benchmark interest rates, such as the Federal Fund Rate, are currently at historic lows, which is likely to significantly impact our investment income. Changes in interest rates and credit quality may result in fluctuations in the income derived from, or the valuation of, our fixed income securities. Our investment portfolios include a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. Conversely, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. Any significant decline in our investment income as a result of falling interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates or general market conditions could have an adverse effect on our net income and, as a result, on our shareholders’ equity and our policyholders’ surplus. Further adverse changes in the capital markets could result in additional other-than-temporary impairments in the future, or could reduce our investment income, which would adversely affect our results of operations, and financial condition. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the amount of each claim to rise in the future. Our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling costs, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs, we would be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us will fluctuate as our premium levels change. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on case incurred losses. In addition, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those employers who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier on a negotiated basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we price our insurance to account for obligations we may have under these pooling arrangements, we may not be successful in estimating our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or increases in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage. When writing workers’ compensation insurance policies, we are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Majestic Insurance’s current excess of loss reinsurance treaty program excludes coverage for acts of terrorism. Notwithstanding the protection provided by reinsurance and the Terrorism Risk Act, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of the Terrorism Risk Act and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Litigation We are involved in several potential and pending litigation matters as described more fully in Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. As each of these matters is in a preliminary stage, the outcomes are difficult to predict and quantify, and the defense against such claims can be costly. In addition to decreasing profitability, diverting financial and management resources and general business disruption, we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our reputation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately successful in our defense of the action. We cannot estimate what impact, if any, the litigation may have on our business reputation, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These matters, or other claims or lawsuits that may arise later, if decided adversely to or settled by us, individually or in the aggregate, could require us to pay significant damage amounts and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These liabilities may exceed our insurance coverage and financial resources. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover the liabilities we may incur. Our discontinued California and New York fee-based management services business has resulted in several lawsuits and exposes us to potential liability. CRM and its affiliates have been named in several lawsuits following the closure of the California and New York self-insured groups, which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Information regarding these lawsuits is presented in “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” We are currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In February 2010, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against us and certain of our directors and executive officers alleging violations of federal securities laws. For further discussion of this lawsuit, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. If the loss reserves for the self-insured groups we managed in the past are underestimated, our business could be adversely affected. The self-insured groups we managed in the past established loss reserves as they recognized liabilities for unpaid losses, which represented estimates of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not been reported. Loss reserves are estimates and are inherently uncertain; they do not and cannot represent an exact measure of liability. The self-insured groups’ loss reserve estimates are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Several factors contribute to the uncertainty in establishing these estimates. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. Key assumptions in the estimation process including average cost of claims over time, include the increasing level of medical, legal and rehabilitation costs; frequency risks; fluctuations in inflation; prevailing economic, social and judicial trends; legislative changes; third party claims handling procedures; costs associated with fraud or other abuses of the medical claim process; and other third party factors beyond the groups’ control. 39 To the extent the loss reserves for the self-insured groups we managed in the past are insufficient to cover the group’s actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, the groups will have to adjust their loss reserves which could have a material adverse effect on the groups’ financial condition and cash flows and could require the group to assess its members. This could expose us to liability for our management of a group. Risks Generally Applicable to our Business and Industry The following risk factors are applicable if Majestic Insurance reemerges from the conservation and rehabilitation actions initiated by the CA DOI and we recommence our insurance operations. Our revenues and results of operation may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of our common shares to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: · competition; · rate increases and decreases; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic and other loss events; · changes in the availability of reinsurance capacity and capital capacity; · rising loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time our insurance products are priced; and · other general economic and social conditions. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus, which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates and additional competition for business. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. If rates continue to decrease and competition continues to increase, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The current recession and other adverse consequences of the recent U.S. and global economic and financial industry downturns could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition. Although there have been some indicators of stabilization, the U.S. economy continues to experience significant recessionary conditions, and we believe meaningful risk remains of potential further deterioration in economic conditions, including substantial and continuing financial market disruptions. The current U.S. recession has resulted in unprecedented levels of market volatility, credit illiquidity and declining interest rates which may significantly affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. Global market and economic conditions have been severely disrupted since the fall of 2008 due in part to financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets. These circumstances have also exerted downward pressure on stock prices and reduced access to the equity and debt markets for many issuers, including us. 40 These conditions are likely to affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our insurance policies, the ability of customers, reinsurers and other counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, the risks we assume under insurance and reinsurance policies, and our investment performance. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. The workers’ compensation insurance market is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, has very few barriers to entry. We compete with many companies and other underwriting organizations in the workers’ compensation insurance business. Many of the insurance companies we compete against have significantly more capital, name and brand recognition and marketing and management resources than we have. Many of our competitors have offered, and may continue to offer, workers’ compensation insurance combined with other insurance coverage. Some of our competitors offer workers’ compensation insurance on a multi-state basis greater than ours. In addition, most of our competitors have financial strength ratings from A.M. Best higher than ours. Our ability to implement a business strategy in a manner that will allow us to be competitive is doubtful. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance that are more competitive than ours, we could lose market share and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We offer only workers’ compensation insurance products. As a result of this concentration, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell other types of insurance. If continued rate declines impair profitability, in any of the states in which we operate, we may elect to reduce the amount of premiums written in such states. If our competitors offer products at prices lower than we believe would be profitable, we may decline to compete at those lower prices and our premium levels could be reduced. Many of our competitors are multi-line carriers that can price the workers’ compensation insurance that they offer at a loss in order to obtain other lines of business at a profit. As we offer only workers’ compensation insurance products, we must make a profit on this business and will not lower our price to obtain business below a price that we believe will be profitable for us. The insurance business is subject to extensive regulation that limits the way we can operate our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the CA DOI and the BMA and other insurance regulatory agencies in each state in which we are licensed. These regulatory agencies have broad regulatory powers designed primarily to protect policyholders, claimants and employees of insured businesses, but not our shareholders. Regulations vary from jurisdiction, but typically address or include: · approval of premium, contribution and funding rates; · ratios of assets to liabilities, credit and risk reserves, net worth levels and standards of solvency; · limits on the size and nature of risks assumed and retained; · reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes; · periodic audits and other regulatory reviews of financial statements; · annual reporting and disclosure agreements; · limitations on our ability to transact business with our affiliates; 41 · regulation of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; · compliance with various licensing requirements and approvals that affect our ability to do business; · approval or rejection of policy coverage and endorsements; · limitations on our investments and dividends; · assessment requirements for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and · compliance with medical privacy laws. Insurance departments and state workers’ compensation or similar boards also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of the insurance companies and groups they regulate and require the filing of periodic, annual and other reports relating to financial condition, approval of new members, groups and other matters. The actuarial findings of the CA DOI examination states that Majestic Insurance’s statutory reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses may be understated by $41 million. Our ability to transact business with our affiliates and to enter into mergers, acquisitions and divestitures involving Majestic Insurance is limited by the requirements of the insurance holding company laws in California. To comply with these laws, we are required to file notices with the CA DOI to seek its approval at least thirty days before engaging in any inter-company transactions, such as sales, purchases, exchanges of assets, loans, extensions of credit, cost sharing arrangements and extraordinary dividends or other distributions to shareholders. Under these holding company laws, any change of control transaction also requires prior notification and approval. In addition, during the pendency of the Special Examiner’s appointment, Majestic Insurance has agreed that it will not, without the prior approval of a Special Examiner or the CA DOI: (a) make any payment to, or engage in any transaction or enter into any agreement with, an affiliated or related person or entity if the cost exceeds $10,000 except for certain payments that have previously been reported to or approved by the Department which may continue until further notice; (b) make any payment to, or engage in any transaction or enter into any agreement with any non-affiliated or unrelated person or entity outside of the ordinary course of business that exceeds $10,000 individually or $100,000 in the aggregate; or (c) pay bonuses or make other distributions (including dividends). Because governmental agencies, including the CA DOI, may not take action or give approval within the specified period of time, these notifications and approval requirements may subject us to business delays and additional business expense. If we fail to give these notifications, we may be subject to significant fines and penalties and damaged working relations with these governmental agencies. Twin Bridges is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Among other matters, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA require Twin Bridges to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, statutory capital and surplus, and liquidity, to meet solvency standards, to obtain prior approval of certain issuances and transfers of shares as well as to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. In an order dated April 8, 2011, the BMA restricted Twin Bridges’ operating authority by prohibiting Twin Bridges from writing new business and requiring the prior approval of the BMA before paying dividends/distributing capital to its parent or any affiliate. Moreover, the offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory markets have long been the subject of scrutiny by federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies. This scrutiny has led to a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives designed to make it more difficult for offshore companies to transact business with U.S. persons. If Twin Bridges were to become subject to any U.S. federal or state law or regulation, Twin Bridges may be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus and may be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Compliance with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance products may not be known until many years after the coverage is initiated. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we underwrote underlying coverage. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic and regulatory conditions in California. Our insurance business is concentrated in California which represented 73% of our net earned premiums for the year ended December 31, 2010. Unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in California could negatively impact our business, and, consequently, we are exposed to economic and regulatory risks that are greater than the risks faced by insurance companies that conduct business over a greater geographic area. Because our business is concentrated in California, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in these states could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risk from natural perils that are greater than the risks associated with greater geographic diversification. If we cannot sustain our relationships with our independent agents and brokers, we may be unable to operate profitably. We market and sell our workers’ compensation insurance products solely through independent agents and brokers. We do not have an exclusive relationship with these independent agents and brokers. They are not obligated to promote our insurance products and may sell insurance products offered by our competitors. Some of our independent agents and brokers may cease to offer our products because Majestic’s A.M. Best rating has been reduced to “B”. Many of our competitors have longer relationships with the independent agents and brokers that we use or intend to use. Further, we must offer workers’ compensation insurance products that meet the requirements of these agents and brokers and their customers and provide competitive compensation to these agents and brokers. There is no assurance that we will successfully maintain these relationships, cultivate new ones or be able to meet the future requirements of these independent agents and brokers. In addition, consolidation in the insurance agency and brokerage industry may lead to the loss of one or more of these relationships. The failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with the independent agents and brokers from whom we obtain or expect to obtain our business or to develop new relationships would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have virtually no access to additional capital. Given the litigation surrounding the company, our ratings from A.M. Best, our operating results over the past two years, the conservation of Majestic Insurance by the CA DOI and the pending delisting of our common shares by the NASDAQ Capital Market, we have very limited access to new sources of capital. Additional capital could help support our insurance company operations and stabilize our A.M. Best rating. However, it is unlikely that additional capital will be available to us. Furthermore, we believe that our ability to raise additional capital will be adversely affected until there is greater clarity with respect to the pending regulatory matters and lawsuits described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and if Majestic Insurance emerges from the conservation and rehabilitation actions initiated by the CA DOI and we recommence our insurance operations. 43 Any additional equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, your interest in us would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common shares. If we raise capital through the issuance of debt, the incurrence and repayment of any debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies could further reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were further downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. The inability of our insurance and other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies in sufficient amounts could adversely affect our ability to meet our debt obligations, pay dividends, make other payments and redeploy capital among our subsidiaries. Majestic Capital is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries, including Majestic Insurance and Twin Bridges. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to meet our ongoing cash requirements and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Insurance regulations in California restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions by Majestic Insurance. In addition, in connection with its triennial examination, Majestic Insurance has agreed that it will not pay dividends without the prior approval of a Special Examiner or the CA DOI. The BMA has also imposed restrictions on the payment of dividends/distribution of capital from Twin Bridges. In addition to the regulatory restrictions, U.S. withholding tax payable on dividends paid to Majestic Capital by our U.S. subsidiaries affects our ability to pay dividends and redeploy capital from our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda operations. Any dividends paid from our U.S. subsidiaries to us would be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 30%. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of a Permanent Resident’s Certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees in Bermuda if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have obtained non-resident work permits for our key employees. If we are unable to renew the work permits for these employees or to obtain work permits for any new employees, we may not be able to conduct our business operations fully or efficiently and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Shares We have received a delisting notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market and our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A delisting of our common stock is likely to adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock, and our ability to obtain financing or raise capital. 44 The listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market require, among other things, that listed companies timely file all required periodic financial reports with the SEC through the EDGAR system. We failed to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K and on April 15, 2011, we received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with the rules for continued listing under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1). We were provided an initial period of 60 calendar days, or until June 14, 2011, during which to submit a plan to regain compliance, and if The Nasdaq Stock Market accepts our plan, they may grant an extension of 180 calendar days, or until October 12, 2011, during which we can regain compliance. If we do not regain compliance, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notice that our common stock is subject to delisting. A delisting could adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common shares, our ability to obtain financing or raise capital, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, market makers, reinsurers, rating agencies and employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A delisting from NASDAQ could significantly impact the transferability and issuance of our common shares under Bermuda law. Specific permission is required from the BMA, pursuant to the provisions of the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations, for all issuances and transfers of securities of Bermuda companies, other than in cases where the BMA has granted a general permission. The BMA has advised that general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a company that is listed on an appointed exchange from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equities securities of such company remain so listed. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, and our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market, or the “pink sheets.” In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate price quotations for our common stock, and there would likely be a reduction in coverage by security analysts and the news media, all of which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. If an active trading market for our common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares without further depressing the market price of our common stock. Further, the NASDAQ Capital Market is deemed to be an appointed stock exchange under Bermuda law and such general permission applies to our common shares. However, the OTC Bulletin Board and the “pink sheets” are not considered to be appointed stock exchanges. Consequently, if our common shares are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets,” we would no longer qualify for the BMA’s grant of general permission. As an alternative, we could seek to apply for listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, which is considered an appointed stock exchange, although we cannot assure you that such a listing can be obtained. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and are not able to obtain listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange, the transfer and issuance of our common shares would be subject to specific permission of the BMA under the Exchange Control Act 1972. This would adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, our common shares, our ability to obtain financing or raise capital, and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, market makers, reinsurers, rating agencies and employees. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may seek to voluntarily deregister as a reporting company. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may seek to voluntarily deregister its common stock and suspend its reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In such event, there will be no established market or mechanism through which our common stock will be traded. Therefore it will be difficult for investors to engage in any buy or sell transactions in our shares. In the event of delisting of our shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. Rule 15g-9 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. 45 In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Future sales of common shares by our directors, officers, affiliates and other shareholders may adversely affect the price. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the trading price of our common shares. Future sales of common shares by our directors, officers, affiliates and other shareholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate. Provisions in our charter documents may reduce or increase the voting power associated with our common shares and thereby affect your voting rights. Our by-laws generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, pursuant to a mechanism specified in our by-laws, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder will be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power conferred by our shares. In addition, our board of directors retains certain discretion to make adjustments to the aggregate number of votes attaching to the shares of any shareholder that they consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to ensure that no person will hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power represented by our then outstanding shares. Our by-laws provide, generally, that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, more than 9.9% of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than 9.9% of the total voting rights. The reduction in votes is generally to be applied proportionately among all shareholders who are members of the first shareholder’s control group. A control group means, with respect to any person, all shares directly owned by such person and all shares directly owned by each other shareholder any of whose shares are included in the controlled shares of such person. Controlled shares means all common shares that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (within the meaning of Section 958(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code) or, in the case of a U.S. person, constructively (within the meaning of Section 958(b) of the Code). A similar limitation is to be applied to shares held directly by members of a related group. A related group means a group of shareholders that are investment vehicles and are under common control and management. Any reduction in votes will generally be applied proportionately among members of the shareholder’s control group or related group, as the case may be. The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among all of our other shareholders who were not members of these groups so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to hold more than 9.9% of the total voting power of our shares. The attribution rules with respect to a control group will not apply to Daniel G. Hickey, Sr. and Daniel G. Hickey, Jr. Accordingly, the voting rights of each of Mr. Hickey, Sr. and Mr. Hickey, Jr. will be limited to 9.9% on an individual basis and not on a joint and aggregate basis. 46 Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reduction in the votes of other shareholders, your voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to the by-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we, in our reasonable discretion, may reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our by-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our by-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our by-laws that could have such an effect include the following: · election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; · the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.9% of our common shares will be reduced to 9.9% of the total voting power of our common shares; and · our directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register if the shares have not been fully paid for, if the directors are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained, if as a result of the transfer a shareholder would own more than 9.9% of our common shares, or if the instrument of transfer is in favor of more than five persons jointly. U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. In order to highlight those differences, we have set forth below a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, including, where relevant, information on our by-laws, which differ in certain respects from the provisions of Delaware corporate law. Further, under certain circumstances, our by-laws impose greater restrictions on us than required by the Companies Act. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in the name of a company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of such company’s memorandum of association or by-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The successful party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of the attorney’s fees incurred in connection with such action. Our by-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in our right, against any director or officer or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors or resident representative for any action or failure to act in the performance of his duties, except such waiver shall not extend to any claims or rights of action that would render the waiver void pursuant to the Companies Act and arise out of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such person or with respect to the recovery of any gain, personal profit or advantage to which such person is not legally entitled. Conversely, class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware corporate law, for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions under Delaware corporate law, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorney’s fees in connection with such action. 47 Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Under Bermuda law and our by-laws, we will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors and any resident representative (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense, to the fullest extent permitted by law, incurred or suffered by such officer, director or other person by reason of any act done, conceived in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of his duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of such director, officer or other person. Under Bermuda law, a company pursuant to the terms of its by-laws, or a contract or arrangement between the company and any director or officer, may advance moneys to any director or officer for the costs, charges and expenses incurred by the director or officer in defending any civil or criminal proceedings against them, on condition that the director or officer shall repay the advance if any allegation of fraud or dishonesty is proved against them. In general, under Delaware corporate law, U.S. companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and reasonably believed their actions were not opposed to the best interests of the company and, with regard to criminal actions or proceedings, without knowing violation of law. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us. We are a Bermuda company and a significant portion of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for shareholders to affect service of process against us or to enforce against us judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not United States) law. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a United States federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to the public policy of Bermuda. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, may not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, will not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they may be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violations of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation Majestic Capital and its non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation. 48 If Majestic Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including Twin Bridges, were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, that entity could be subject to U.S. income and branch profits tax on all or a portion of the income that is effectively connected with such trade or business. We intend to operate in a manner such that neither Majestic Capital nor any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Accordingly, we do not believe that Majestic Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are or will be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on net income. However, this determination is essentially factual in nature, and there are no definitive standards as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, would not find that Majestic Capital or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Any liability for income or branch profits tax resulting from such finding could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Even if Majestic Capital and our non-U.S. subsidiaries are not treated as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States, we may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on certain fixed or determinable annual or periodical gains, profits, and income (such as dividends and certain interest on investments) derived from sources within the United States. Majestic Capital could be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and thus subject to U.S. tax on its worldwide income (including current income of Twin Bridges), if the value of Twin Bridges at the time of our restructuring did not exceed 20% of the total value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges at that time. If a foreign corporation acquires substantially all of the assets of a U.S. corporation, and 80% or more of the stock of the foreign corporation (excluding new stock issued in a public offering related to the acquisition) is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of their ownership of the U.S. corporation, the foreign corporation will be considered a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In our restructuring, the former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar contributed all of their interests in CRM, CRM CA and Eimar to Majestic USA in return for all of the common stock of Majestic USA. The former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar then contributed all of their Majestic USA shares to us in exchange for 6,372,425 of our pre-reverse split common shares. In addition, in our restructuring, the former owners of Twin Bridges contributed all of their shares in Twin Bridges to us in exchange for 3,874,690 of our pre-reverse split common shares. As a result of these exchanges, the former owners of CRM, CRM CA Eimar and Twin Bridges acquired 9,457,115 of our pre-reverse split common shares in our restructuring. Based on discussions with our professional advisors at the time of our restructuring, we believe that the former owners of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar did not obtain 80% or more of the stock of Majestic Capital (excluding the stock sold in our initial public offering) by reason of their ownership of CRM, CRM CA and Eimar (i.e., we believe that Twin Bridges was worth more than 20% of the combined value of CRM, CRM CA, Eimar and Twin Bridges). We cannot assure you that the IRS will agree with our conclusions. If the IRS successfully challenges our conclusions, Majestic Capital would be subject to United States federal income tax on its worldwide income at the rate applicable to U.S. corporations, which is currently 35%, rather than being subject to tax on only certain U.S. source income and income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. However, in that case, dividends paid to Majestic Capital by its U.S. subsidiaries would not be subject to any U.S. federal income tax, nor would they be subject to the 30% U.S. federal withholding tax. The tax liability that would result if Majestic Capital is treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of our U.S. subsidiaries may be deemed a “personal holding company” and subject to additional U.S. federal income tax. Any of Majestic Capital’ U.S. subsidiaries might be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax on a portion of its income if it is considered a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares by value could be deemed to be owned (taking into account indirect and constructive ownership) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of such subsidiary’s adjusted ordinary gross income consists of “personal holding company income,” which is, in general, certain forms of passive and investment income. We believe based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base that none of Majestic Capital’ U.S. subsidiaries should be considered a personal holdings company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we intend to manage our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate common share ownership (i.e., as determined by the constructive ownership rules for personal holdings companies), we cannot be certain that none of Majestic Capital’ subsidiaries will be considered a personal holding company or that the amount of U.S. tax that would be imposed in that case would be immaterial 49 Shareholders who are U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their pro rata share of our undistributed earnings. Shareholders who are U.S. persons may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed earnings if we are treated as a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company or if we have generated more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income. In addition, gain on the disposition of our common shares may be treated as dividend income. Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation for an uninterrupted period of thirty days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the controlled foreign corporation directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the corporation’s taxable year on which such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the controlled foreign corporation’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. Subpart F income generally includes, among other things, investment income such as dividends, interest and capital gains, and income from insuring risks located outside the insurer’s country of incorporation. A foreign corporation is considered a controlled foreign corporation if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation entitled to vote. For purposes of taking into account subpart F income consisting of insurance income, a controlled foreign corporation also includes a foreign corporation of which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts generating subpart F income exceeds 75% of the gross amount of premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. It is expected that all of Twin Bridges’ income will be considered subpart F insurance income. For purposes of determining whether the more-than-50% (or more-than-25%, in the case of insurance income) and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, and therefore whether a corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities and shares considered owned under applicable constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. Majestic Capital’s By-Laws contain provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares. Accordingly, based upon these provisions and the dispersion of our share ownership, we do not believe that we have any 10% U.S. Shareholders. It is possible, however that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Related Person Insurance Income. If Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income equals or exceeds 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year, direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Twin Bridges and U.S. persons are considered to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of Twin Bridges by vote or value, then a U.S. person who owns any of our shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of Twin Bridges’ taxable year on which it is a controlled foreign corporation would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of Twin Bridges’ related person insurance income for the U.S. person’s taxable year that includes the end of Twin Bridges’ taxable year, determined as if such related person insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition any related person insurance income that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of related person insurance income earned by Twin Bridges (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Twin Bridges or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Twin Bridges. 50 Although we do not expect our gross related person insurance income to equal or exceed 20% of our gross insurance income in the foreseeable future, some of the factors which determine the extent of related person insurance income in any period may be beyond Twin Bridges’ control. Consequently, Twin Bridges’ gross related person insurance income could equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The related person insurance income rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income (even if the amount of related person insurance income is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to related person insurance income). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Majestic Capital will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. Passive Foreign Investment Company. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a passive foreign investment company. However, it is possible that we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company by the IRS. Our being considered a passive foreign investment company could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be issued in the future. We cannot predict what impact, if any, this guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company for any year. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda has given each of Majestic Capital and Twin Bridges an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Majestic Capital or Twin Bridges or any of their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. tax law or regulations could materially adversely affect our business. Legislation is periodically introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance and reinsurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United State but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have a material adverse impact on us or our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 51 