Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares involves risk. In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services. In particular, our refining margins were significantly lower in 2010 and 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 due to decreased demand for refined products, substantial increases in feedstock costs, and lower increases in product prices throughout much of 2009 and 2010. In recent years, the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, and refined products have fluctuated substantially. The NYMEX WTI postings of crude oil for 2010 ranged from $68.01 to $91.51 per barrel. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: • changes in global and local economic conditions; • demand for crude oil and refined products, especially in the U.S., China, and India; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa, and Latin America; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the level of crude oil, feedstocks, and refined products imported into the U.S., which can be impacted by accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather, or other events affecting producers and suppliers; • U.S. government regulations; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; • changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain oil price and production controls; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; • pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market; 17 Table of Contents • product pipeline capacity, including the Magellan Southwest System pipeline, as well as Kinder Morgan’s expansion of its East Line, both of which could increase supply in certain of our service areas and therefore reduce our margins; • accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our plants, machinery or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions, and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our service areas. Volatility has had, and may continue to further have, a negative effect on our results of operations to the extent that the margin between refined product prices and feedstock prices narrows further, as was the case throughout much of 2009 and 2010. The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil and refined product inventories. Crude oil and refined products are commodities. As a result, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Because our inventory of crude oil and refined product is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the “last-in, first-out,” or LIFO, inventory valuation methodology, if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold. The estimated fair value of the Giant inventory recorded as a result of the acquisition of Giant increased the likelihood of a lower of cost or market, or LCM, inventory write-down to occur in the future. As a result of increasing market prices of crude oil, blendstocks, and refined products, we had a net change in the lower of cost or market reserve from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 of $61.0 million to value our Yorktown inventories to net realizable market values, which decreased cost of products sold and increased refinery gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, due to the volatility in the price of crude oil and other blendstocks, we experienced fluctuations in our LIFO reserves during the three years ended December 31, 2010. We also experienced LIFO liquidations based on decreased levels in our inventories. These LIFO liquidations resulted in decreases in cost of products sold of $16.9 million and $9.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and an increase in cost of products sold of $66.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, the volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries affects operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our results of operations. If the price of crude oil increases significantly or our credit profile changes, or if we are unable to access our Revolving Credit Agreement for borrowings or for letters of credit, our liquidity and our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on borrowings and letters of credit under our Revolving Credit Agreement to purchase crude oil for our refineries. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require additional support such as letters of credit. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our creditors of more burdensome payment terms on us, or our inability to access our Revolving Credit Agreement, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers, which could hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. In addition, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient capacity under our Revolving Credit Agreement, or sufficient cash on hand, to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. A failure to operate our refineries at planned rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, our total debt was $1,069.5 million and our stockholders’ equity was $675.6 million. On December 23, 2010, we completed an amendment of our Revolving Credit Agreement, resulting in total commitments of $800.0 million composed of a $145.0 million tranche maturing on May 31, 2012 and a $655.0 million tranche maturing on January 1, 2015. As of December 31, 2010, the gross availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement was $624.0 million pursuant to the borrowing base. As of December 31, 2010, we had net availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $335.6 million due to $288.4 million in letters of credit outstanding and no direct borrowings. On February 25, 2011, the gross availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement was $650.3 million pursuant to the borrowing base. On February 25, 2011, we had net availability under the Revolving Credit Agreement of $192.3 million due to $273.0 million in letters of credit outstanding and $185.0 million in direct borrowings. Our level of debt may have important consequences to you. Among other things, it may: • limit our ability to use our cash flow, or obtain additional financing, for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to pay dividends; • require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and, to the extent of our outstanding debt under our floating rate debt facilities, the impact of increases in interest rates. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flows or that we will be able to borrow funds under our Revolving Credit Agreement in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operating activities will continue to be primarily dependent on producing or purchasing, and selling, sufficient quantities of refined products at margins sufficient to cover fixed and variable expenses. If our margins were to deteriorate significantly, or if our earnings and cash flow were to suffer for any other reason, we may be unable to comply with the financial covenants set forth in our credit facilities. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit, which would hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. To the extent that we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to borrow or issue letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Agreement, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, or obtain additional financing through equity or debt financings. If additional funds are obtained by issuing equity securities or if holders of our outstanding 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes convert those notes into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders could be diluted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, or obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our ability to incur additional debt will be restricted under the covenants contained in our Revolving Credit Agreement, Term Loan Credit Agreement, and Senior Secured Notes. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Working Capital and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Indebtedness. Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. Our Revolving Credit Agreement, Term Loan Credit Agreement, or Term Loan, and the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes contain covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to covenants that restrict our activities, including restrictions on: • creating liens; 19 Table of Contents • engaging in mergers, consolidations, and sales of assets; • incurring additional indebtedness; • providing guarantees; • engaging in different businesses; • making investments; • making certain dividend, debt, and other restricted payments; • engaging in certain transactions with affiliates; and • entering into certain contractual obligations. We are also subject to financial covenants that require us to maintain, in the case of the Revolving Credit Agreement, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined therein), contingent on the level of availability thereunder, and in the case of the Term Loan Credit Agreement, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined therein), and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio (as defined therein). Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend on factors outside our control, including refined product margins. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in these facilities or an event of default occurs under these facilities, the maturity of the loans, our Senior Secured Notes and our Convertible Senior Notes could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. If the loans, our Senior Secured Notes, or our Convertible Senior Notes are accelerated and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all amounts due, we could be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, or to obtain additional financing through equity or debt financings. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot borrow or issue letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Agreement, we would need to seek additional financing, if available, or curtail our operations. We have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with certain environmental standards by the current EPA mandated deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term and long-term capital needs, including those for capital expenditures that we will make to comply with various regulatory requirements. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily crude oil purchase requirements, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support ongoing capital expenditures and other regulatory compliance. The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs, or liabilities. Any significant interruptions in the operations of any of our refineries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products, and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • natural disasters; • weather-related disruptions; • fires; • explosions; • pipeline ruptures and spills; 20 Table of Contents • third-party interference; • disruption of natural gas deliveries; • disruptions of electricity deliveries; • disruption of sulfur gas processing by E.I. du Pont de Nemours at our El Paso refinery; and • mechanical failure of equipment at our refineries or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims, and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. For example, in February 2011, we experienced several days of unplanned downtime at our El Paso refinery due to weather related causes and interruptions to our electrical supply. Furthermore, in any of those situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Our refineries consist of many processing units, several of which have been in operation for a long time. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs, or our planned turnarounds may last longer than anticipated. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues and increase our costs during the period of time that our units are not operating. Our refining activities are conducted at our El Paso refinery in Texas, the Yorktown refinery in Virginia, and our Gallup refinery in New Mexico. The refineries constitute a significant portion of our operating assets, and our refineries supply a significant portion of our fuel to our retail operations. Prior to our acquisition of Giant in 2007, there was one fire incident at the Yorktown refinery and two fire incidents at the Gallup refinery in late 2006. Because of the significance to us of our refining operations, the occurrence of any of the events described above could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products, and any sustained disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Crude oil supplies for the El Paso refinery come from the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico and therefore are generally not subject to interruption from severe weather, such as hurricanes. We, however, obtain certain of our feedstocks for the El Paso refinery, such as alkylate, and some refined products we purchase for resale, by pipeline from Gulf Coast refineries. Alkylate is used to produce a portion of our Phoenix Clean Burning Gasoline, or CBG, and other refined products. If our supply of feedstocks is interrupted for the El Paso refinery, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our operations involve environmental risks that could give rise to material liabilities. Our operations, and those of prior owners or operators of our properties, have previously resulted in spills, discharges, or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment, and such spills, discharges, or releases could also happen in the future. Past or future spills related to any of our operations, including our refineries, product terminals, or transportation of refined products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and clean-up responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state, or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, for contamination of properties that we currently own or operate and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or by-products for use, treatment, storage or disposal, without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with law at the time. Our liability could also increase if other responsible parties, including prior owners or operators of our facilities, fail to complete their clean-up obligations. Based on current information, we do not believe these liabilities are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In the event that new spills, discharges, or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances occur or are discovered or there are other changes in facts or in the level of contributions being made by other responsible parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents In addition, we may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our refineries or otherwise related to our current or former operations. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage, or for clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our refineries to adjacent and other nearby properties. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, characteristics, composition of gasoline, diesel, and other fuels and the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to administrative, civil, and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other entities and individuals. A failure to comply, and any related proceedings, including lawsuits, could result in significant costs and liabilities, penalties, judgments against us, or governmental or court orders that could alter, limit, or stop our operations. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources, new state regulations relating to fuel quality, and the risk of global climate change, as well as new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement, or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. We are not able to predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations or changes in the ways that such laws or regulations are administered, interpreted, or enforced. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any or all of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The EPA has issued rules pursuant to the Clean Air Act that require refiners to reduce the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuel and reduce the benzene content of gasoline by various specified dates. We are incurring substantial costs to comply with the EPA’s low sulfur and low benzene rules. Our strategy for complying with low sulfur gasoline regulations at our El Paso refinery and our strategy for complying with low sulfur gasoline regulations at our El Paso and Gallup refineries relies partially on purchasing credits. If credits are not available or are too costly, we may not be able to meet the EPA’s deadlines using a credit strategy. Failure to meet the EPA’s clean fuels mandates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Pursuant to the Energy Acts of 2005 and 2007, the EPA has issued Renewable Fuels Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced at our refineries. Currently, the standards are enforced at our El Paso refinery only. Our Gallup refinery became subject to RFS in 2011 and will remain subject unless the EPA grants further extensions to small refineries. Annually, the EPA establishes a volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries must blend into their finished petroleum fuels. The obligated volume increases over time until 2022. Blending renewable fuels into their finished petroleum fuels will displace an increasing volume of a refinery’s product pool. Alternatively, refineries can meet their RFS obligations by purchasing renewable identification numbers, or RINs. If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA’s RFS mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could incur significant costs to comply with greenhouse gas emissions regulation or legislation. In November 2010, the State of New Mexico adopted regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions. The regulations will become effective in 2012 unless reversed by the current New Mexico administration, or unless a certain amount of emissions are not available within New Mexico and other participating states. Our Gallup refinery will be required to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2% per year between 2012 and 2020 or obtain emission credits from other regulated facilities. The EPA has recently adopted and implemented regulations to restrict 22 Table of Contents emissions of greenhouse gases under certain provisions of the Clean Air Act. One of the rules adopted by the EPA requires a reduction in certain emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources, such as refineries, effective January 2, 2011. A number of legal challenges have been presented regarding these proposed greenhouse gas regulations but no legal limitation on the EPA implementing these rules has occurred to date. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring refiners to report greenhouse gas emissions on an annual basis beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010. Further, the United States Congress has recently discussed legislation related to the reduction of greenhouse gases through “cap and trade” programs. To the extent these EPA rules and regulations continue to be implemented or cap and trade legislation is enacted by federal or state governments, our operating costs will increase and such increase could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a continued economic downturn. The recent turmoil in the global financial markets and the scarcity of credit has led to lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally in the United States and abroad. The economic downturn has materially adversely affected and may continue to affect the liquidity, businesses, and/or financial conditions of our customers, which has resulted, and may continue to result, not only in decreased demand for our products, but also increased delinquencies in our accounts receivable. The disruptions in the financial markets could also lead to a reduction in available trade credit due to counterparties’ liquidity concerns. If we are unable to obtain borrowings or letters of credit under our Revolving Credit Agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could experience business interruptions caused by pipeline shutdown. Our El Paso refinery, which is our largest refinery, is dependent on a pipeline owned by Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, LP, or Kinder Morgan, for the delivery of all of its crude oil. Because our crude oil refining capacity at the El Paso refinery is approaching the delivery capacity of the pipeline, our ability to offset lost production due to disruptions in supply with increased future production is limited due to this crude oil supply constraint. In addition, we will be unable to take advantage of further expansion of the El Paso refinery’s production without securing additional crude oil supplies or pipeline expansion. We also deliver a substantial percentage of the refined products produced at the El Paso refinery through three principal product pipelines. Any extended, non-excused downtime of our El Paso refinery could cause us to lose line space on these refined products pipelines if we cannot otherwise utilize our pipeline allocations. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action, or any other events beyond our control. A prolonged inability to receive crude oil or transport refined products on pipelines that we currently utilize could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also have a pipeline system that delivers crude oil and natural gas liquids to our Gallup refinery. The Gallup refinery is dependent on the crude oil pipeline system for the delivery of the crude oil necessary to run the refinery. If the operation of the pipeline system is disrupted, we may not receive the crude oil necessary to run the refinery. A prolonged inability to transport crude oil on the pipeline system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain rights-of-way necessary for our crude oil pipeline system to deliver crude oil to our Gallup refinery must be renewed periodically. A prolonged inability to use these pipelines to transport crude oil to our Gallup refinery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not have sufficient crude oil to be able to run our Gallup refinery at full capacity. Our Gallup refinery purchases crude oil from the local regions around the refinery. To the extent sufficient local crude oil cannot be purchased and we are unable to transport sufficient crude oil on our 16-inch pipeline to supply the Gallup refinery, we may not have sufficient crude oil to run the Gallup refinery at the historical levels of 23 Table of Contents our Four Corners refineries, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. This includes our El Paso refinery’s Texas Flexible Permit. See Note 21, Contingencies — El Paso Refinery. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal, or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the areas in which we sell our refined products could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations, and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to compete on the basis of price, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage, and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. Competitors that have their own production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from production, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial, and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The areas where we sell refined products are also supplied by various refined product pipelines. Any expansions or additional product supplied by these third-party pipelines could put downward pressure on refined product prices in these areas. Portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors’ plans, as well as plans of our own, for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in the Southwest region. In addition, we anticipate that lower quality crude oils, which are typically less expensive to acquire, can and will be processed by our competitors as a result of refinery improvements. These developments could result in increased competition in the areas in which we operate. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs, or liabilities that we may experience. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs, or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. In addition, if we experience any more insurable events, our annual premiums could increase further or insurance may not be available at all. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or the loss of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our refining workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of February 25, 2011, we employed approximately 2,950 people, approximately 380 of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Subject to a Memorandum of Understanding dated August 23, 2010 between Western Refining Yorktown, Inc. and the local union representing the covered Yorktown refinery employees, the collective bargaining agreement at our Yorktown refinery was terminated in connection with the temporary suspension of refining activities at our Yorktown facility. If we restart refining operations at our Yorktown facility prior to March 15, 2012, the collective bargaining agreement for covered Yorktown employees will be reinstated. All separated covered employees have recall rights if we restart Yorktown refining operations prior to March 16, 2012. In 2008, we successfully negotiated collective bargaining agreements covering employees at our Gallup and Bloomfield refineries that expire in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Although the collective bargaining agreement remains in force, the covered employees at our Bloomfield refinery were terminated in connection with the indefinite suspension of refining operations at our Bloomfield facility during November 2009. We also successfully negotiated a new collective bargaining agreement covering employees at our El Paso refinery, renewing the collective bargaining agreement that expired in April 2009. The collective bargaining agreement covering the El Paso refinery employees expires in April 2012. While all of our collective bargaining agreements contain “no strike” provisions, those provisions are not effective in the event that an agreement expires. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, threats of war, or actual war may negatively affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Energy related assets (which could include refineries and terminals such as ours or pipelines such as the ones on which we depend for our crude oil supply and refined product distribution) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets. A direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any terrorist attack could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and marketing operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government imposed price controls. While we currently maintain some insurance that provides coverage against terrorist attacks, such insurance has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. As a result, insurance providers may not continue to offer this coverage to us on terms that we consider affordable, or at all. Long-lived and intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. Long-lived assets and both amortizable intangible assets and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. We evaluate the remaining useful lives of our intangible assets with indefinite lives each reporting period. If events or circumstances no longer support an indefinite life, the intangible asset is tested for impairment and prospectively amortized over its remaining useful life. Long-lived and amortizable intangible assets are not recoverable if their carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from their use and eventual disposition. If a long-lived or amortizable intangible asset is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount by which its carrying amount exceeds its fair value, with fair value determined generally based on discounted estimated net cash flows. In order to test long-lived and amortizable intangible assets for recoverability, management must make estimates of projected cash flows related to the asset being evaluated, which include, but are not limited to, assumptions about the use or disposition of the asset, its estimated remaining life, and future expenditures necessary to maintain its existing service potential. In order to determine fair value, management must make certain estimates and assumptions including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected volumes, margins, 25 Table of Contents cash flows, investment rates, interest/equity rates, and growth rates, that could significantly impact the fair value of the asset being tested for impairment. Due to the effect of the current unfavorable economic conditions on the refining industry, and our expectations of a continuation of such conditions for the near term, we will continue to monitor both our operating assets and our capital projects for potential asset impairments or project write-offs until conditions improve. Due to continuing losses resulting from narrow heavy light crude differentials, poor coking economics, and changes in our Yorktown crude oil purchase contracts, we have recently suspended refining operations at our Yorktown refinery. As such, our current evaluations are primarily focused on our Yorktown refinery long-lived assets, which had a carrying value of $678.5 million as of December 31, 2010. Changes in market conditions, as well as changes in assumptions used to test for recoverability and to determine fair value, could result in significant impairment charges or project write-offs in the future, thus negatively affecting our earnings. See Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Long-lived Assets. Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months. In addition, ethanol is added to the gasoline in our service areas during the winter months, thereby increasing the supply of gasoline. This combination of decreased demand and increased supply during the winter months can lower gasoline prices. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. The effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by increased demand during the winter months for diesel fuel in the Southwest and heating oil in the Northeast. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by contractual restrictions and cash generated by operations. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Consequently, we will rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to fund any dividends. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and our ability to receive distributions from those entities are subject to applicable local law. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to certain restrictions in our Revolving Credit Agreement, our Term Loan Credit Agreement, and the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes, including pro forma compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio test and an excess availability test under our Revolving Credit Agreement, pro forma compliance with our minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio covenants and a fixed cap under our Term Loan Credit Agreement and compliance with an incurrence-based test and a formula-based maximum under the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes. These factors could restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, our payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flows. Our board of directors will review our dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and we cannot assure you of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Our controlling stockholders may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Mr. Paul Foster, our Executive Chairman, and Messrs. Jeff Stevens (our Chief Executive Officer and President and a current director), Ralph Schmidt (our former Chief Operating Officer and a current director) and Scott Weaver (our Vice President, Assistant Secretary and a current director) own approximately 41% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Foster and the other members of this group will strongly influence or effectively control the election of our directors, our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Foster and the other members of this group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, including our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Assistant Secretary, President-Refining and Marketing, Senior Vice President-Legal, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Accounting Officer, and Senior Vice President-Treasurer. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers, and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 