Risk Factors. A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. Our Success is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of our Brands, Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content, which is Difficult to Predict The production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our content’s acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time, especially given the length of the production cycle. In addition, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, increasing digital offerings, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. In our Media Networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. Depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. Low 21 Table of Contents audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and/or limit a network’s distribution potential. In addition, consumer acceptance of our brands has a significant impact on revenues from consumer products and licensing activities. Similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including the expansion of our presence abroad. In our Filmed Entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television and digital licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. Consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. Changes in Consumer Behavior Resulting from New Technologies and Distribution Platforms May Affect Our Viewership and Profitability in Unpredictable Ways Consumers are spending an increasing amount of time online and on mobile devices and tablets, and technology and business models in these areas continue to evolve rapidly. New forms of content distribution provide different economic models and compete in ways that are not entirely predictable. For example, digital distributors are generally licensed different rights than traditional cable and satellite operators, in many cases having rights to older, library product for use in later windows. Nevertheless, library product competes in some respects with the current content offered by traditional cable and satellite operators, and the cable and satellite operators are increasingly offering applications that distribute cable and satellite television to portable devices in competition with digital-only distributors. Such competition could reduce demand for our traditional television offerings or for the offerings of digital distributors, and reduce our revenue from these sources. In addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the Internet, on their televisions and on tablets and other portable devices. There is increased demand for short-form, user-generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. Consumer demand for DVDs has been declining, and there can be no assurance that such demand will be entirely replaced by newer offerings or that the profitability of such offerings will compare to that of DVD sales and rentals. At the same time, exhibition windows are evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. New technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. For example, some distributors have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. Some distributors have taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize revenue and profitability. All of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries Companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. Competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets. Competition also comes from pirated content. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. More content distribution options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to fragmented audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. In addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our Media Networks businesses 22 Table of Contents generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, ISPs and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Theft of Our Entertainment Content, Including Digital Copyright Theft and Other Unauthorized Exhibitions of Our Content, May Decrease Revenue Received from Our Programming and Motion Pictures and Adversely Affect Our Businesses and Profitability The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. Copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the United States and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. The interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux. The failure to strengthen and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. Content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. In addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content, a disruption of our services, or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. The increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows, which is likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of the affected programming. Copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized distribution, performance and copying of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. Global Economic Conditions May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Businesses Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales, theatrical release, home entertainment sales and television licensing, and sales of consumer products. Economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. They can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. The worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses. Advertising Market Conditions Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse affect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. 23 Table of Contents The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers’ current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the growth rate of our advertising revenues. In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. For example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. Advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, which is provided by third parties. The results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including difficulties related to the employed statistical sampling methods, new methods of watching our networks, such as on computers, and the shifting of the marketplace to the use of measurement of different viewer behavior, such as delayed viewing. These variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. For example, Federal legislators and regulators are considering voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. The threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny may deter certain advertisers from advertising on our networks. Increased Costs for Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Rights, as Well as Judgments We Make on the Potential Performance of our Content, May Adversely Affect Our Profits and Balance Sheet In our Media Networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and continue to invest in this area. We also acquire programming, motion pictures, television series, and other rights such as consumer products offerings from other companies and pay license fees in connection with the acquired rights. Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. These costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. The Filmed Entertainment segment’s core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have generally been increasing. A film’s underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability and negatively affect the revenues we receive from subsequent distribution channels. The accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and/or write down the value of the asset. For example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. Upon a film’s initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. If it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. Similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. An increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. For example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. Some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. There can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as 24 Table of Contents effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. Our Revenues, Expenses and Operating Results May Vary Based on the Timing, Mix, Number and Availability of Our Motion Pictures and on Seasonal Factors Our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and licensing of programs. For example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences’ viewing habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws, Laws Affecting Intellectual Property Rights or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business Our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. For example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children’s programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors that affect our Nickelodeon businesses in particular. In addition, the U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our U.S. media properties. For example, if our programming services are required to be offered on an “á la carte” or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers on some or all of our channels. Our businesses could be affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. Our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate. We could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. We could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. For example, the EU’s European Court of Justice recently ruled that some territorial, as opposed to pan-EU, licensing of content for satellite distribution violates European Union law and that some existing agreements related to satellite distribution with territorial restrictions may be unenforceable. The effects of this ruling on our business are not yet fully realized. In addition, some international governments and regulators support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children, including OFCOM in the United Kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisement, and certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. Laws in some non-U.S. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. This could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. 25 Table of Contents Changes to our Business Could Result in Future Costs or Charges We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, industry changes, technological developments, competitive factors and economic conditions. In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets, and there can be no assurance that these actions will not be disruptive to our ordinary business activities. In addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro-economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. Such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, programming write-downs and/or the incurrence of additional costs. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements, Renewal on Less Favorable Terms or Adverse Interpretations Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, online content distributors, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our programming and program services. We have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements, or the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. In addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, costly litigation to enforce our rights. The Loss of Key Talent Could Disrupt Our Business and Adversely Affect Our Revenues Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity We and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. International Political and Economic Risks Could Harm Our Financial Condition Our and our partners’ businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export and market access restrictions, currency exchange controls and/or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. In particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by economic conditions than the United States. We also 26 Table of Contents may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. Acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations We use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Obligations Related to Guarantees, Litigation and Joint Ventures Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition We have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if Famous Players Inc. defaults on certain theater leases. We have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. We are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. It is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Sales and Pledges of Shares of Common Stock by National Amusements Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price National Amusements, Inc. (“NAI”), which is controlled by our Executive Chairman and Founder, Sumner Redstone, has voting control of Viacom through its beneficial ownership of approximately 79% of our outstanding Class A common stock. Based on information provided to us by NAI, the shares of our Class A common stock beneficially owned by NAI are owned by NAI directly and NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC (“NAI EH”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NAI. The shares of Class A common stock owned by NAI EH, which represent approximately 28% of our outstanding Class A common stock, are pledged to NAI’s lenders in connection with a restructuring of NAI’s indebtedness. If NAI defaults on its obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could sell, and/or convert to non-voting Class B common stock and sell, such shares of our voting Class A common stock, which could adversely affect the stock price. Although NAI has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell or pledge any additional shares, there can be no assurance that it will not do so at some future time, which could adversely affect the stock price. Through NAI’s Voting Control of Viacom and CBS Corporation, Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest, and NAI is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder. Shari Redstone, Mr. Redstone’s daughter, is the President and a director of NAI and serves as the non-executive Vice Chair of our Board of Directors. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a director of NAI, and George Abrams, one of our directors, is a director of NAI. NAI 27 Table of Contents also controls CBS Corporation, with Mr. Redstone serving as its Executive Chairman and Founder and Ms. Redstone serving as its non-executive Vice Chair. Frederic Salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of CBS Corporation. The NAI ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and CBS Corporation. Potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and CBS Corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with CBS Corporation. Our certificate of incorporation and the CBS Corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS Corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. In addition, NAI’s voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. For so long as NAI retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than NAI will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. The interests of NAI may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. We, NAI and CBS Corporation, and our Respective Businesses, Are Attributable to Each Other for Certain Regulatory Purposes Which May Limit Business Opportunities or Impose Additional Costs So long as we, NAI and CBS Corporation are under common control, each company’s businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the United States, among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for FCC purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from CBS Corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 