Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Economic conditions could adversely affect our prospects and our results of operations. Our business may be affected by the general global economic recession and other market or economic challenges experienced by the U.S. and world markets. Uncertainty about the current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products and services. While the music industry has been relatively resilient in prior financial downturns as its products are low priced relative to other entertainment goods, we cannot predict the impact of the global economic recession on us or whether this downturn will be different from prior downturns. We have a limited operating history, have experienced net losses to date and may not be able to become profitable or generate positive cash flow in the future. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stage of development in a rapidly evolving industry. We did not begin to generate significant digital revenue until 2004, have experienced net losses since inception, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $26.3 million as of December 31, 2008, and have not yet been able to generate positive cash flow from operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate net income and positive cash flows from operations in the future. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations. We derive 25% of our revenue from international operations. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of our services in foreign countries could be affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred mainly in Europe. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the British pound devalued 20% against the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies generally is beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. The strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase our operating costs denominated in those currencies. We are exploring the use of derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we use such hedging activities, they may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. We may incur significant costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of this internal control over financial reporting. We will be required to have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such control for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 and subsequent years. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We may in the future discover areas of internal control over financial reporting that need improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses acquired in the future. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. The loss of one or more of our management or key personnel, or our failure to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could cause a disruption in our relationships with digital entertainment services and content owners. We depend on the continued services and performance of our management and other key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, they may decide to terminate their employment or otherwise cease to be employed by us. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our personnel. As we grow, our business will be dependent on our ability to recruit, employ and retain additional management and skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract other key personnel could disrupt and limit our ability to grow our business. If the internet and portable digital music and video players and mobile phones cease to be the medium accepted by the mass market for digital music and video content, our business could be affected adversely. Our success depends to a substantial extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of digital entertainment services as a method of purchasing music and video content or viewing ad-supported content. The use of the internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks to select and download purchased music and video content is growing rapidly but is still evolving, and offering ad-supported video content is in its infancy. It is uncertain whether these markets will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. If the use of the internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks to select and purchase music and video content or view ad-supported content does not gain in popularity and market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. Much of our revenue is currently tied to the popularity of portable digital music players such as the iPod by Apple Inc. and other digital music listening and video viewing devices, including mobile phones. If the market penetration by these devices does not continue to grow, the number of consumers purchasing digital music and video content may decrease or not grow, which could result in a reduction in our revenue. The digital music industry is evolving and we are vulnerable to discounting, price-reductions, pricing structure and stocking changes that may evolve in the industry and, as a result, cause a reduction in our revenue. We receive revenue based on the wholesale prices determined by the digital music retailers based, to a large extent, on the price they charge to consumers. We have limited ability to influence the pricing models of the digital entertainment services. Variable pricing is being introduced by iTunes. There can be no assurance that changes in the pricing structure of digital music will not adversely affect the amount of revenue we receive. In addition, the popularity of digital music retailers that offer digital music through subscription and other pricing models is increasing. For example, eMusic, a subscription-based music service, is now the second largest digital music retailer in the world. Currently, the revenue we earn per individual music recording is generally less under these subscription models than what we receive from iTunes, although we expect it will increase as more subscribers are added. Additionally, digital music services at present generally accept all the music content that we and other distributors deliver to them. However, to the extent the digital music services limit the types or amount of music recordings they will accept from content owners and distributors like us, or substantially limit the number of music recordings they will post for sale, or change their current stocking plans, for instance by removing music recordings that do not meet minimum sales thresholds or other criteria, our revenue could be significantly reduced. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Piracy is likely to continue to negatively impact our potential revenue. Our revenue comes from the sale of our digital content over the internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks, which is subject to unauthorized consumer copying and widespread dissemination on the internet without an economic return to us. Global piracy is a significant threat to the entertainment industry generally and to us. Unauthorized copies and piracy have contributed to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales of music and video content and have put pressure on the price of legitimate sales. Because of our limited operating history in the physical distribution market, we may not be able to successfully sign select labels to this service or maintain retail channels, which will impact our potential revenue. We have entered into the highly competitive physical retail market for select labels in the United States. We have limited operating history in this market and compete with all the other physical distribution companies for the shrinking shelf space in brick and mortar retail stores for display of physical music product. If we are unable to place physical music product in existing brick and mortar retail stores, we will not be able to generate positive cash flow from this service. In addition, while demand for physical music product is diminishing, most labels continue to generate the majority of their sales revenue from such product and therefore we may not be able to sign labels to this service because we do not have an operating history or track record to show our ability to meet labels’ needs and expectations. Failure to sign select labels to this service could impact our digital revenue as such labels may sign with physical distributors who also require the label to provide them with digital rights. Our success depends on our ability to satisfy brick and mortar retail stores’ minimum sales volume, which in turn depends on consumer demand for our content. Unlike digital stores, brick and mortar retail stores have limited shelf space for physical music products. In addition, the number of brick and mortar retail stores carrying physical music products is diminishing, as such stores close and are consolidated. In addition, as consumer demand for physical music products shrinks, brick and mortar retail stores are reducing shelf space reserved for such products. As a result, many brick and mortar retail stores require a distributor to meet minimum sales volumes. If we do not meet these minimum requirements, we will not be able to place physical music product at these stores. If we are unable to provide product to any one key store, we will not be able to successfully sign labels to this service and may lose such labels’ digital rights to our competitors. Our success in meeting key brick and mortar stores’ minimum sales requirements and getting such stores to carry our labels’ products depends upon the market demand for physical music recordings. Consumer tastes are subject to frequent and significant changes. There can be no assurances that we will be able to deliver products which are in demand. Our distribution approach may not work well for video content. The approach we have taken to date in acquiring, processing and marketing music content may not work as well for video content. The distribution of digital video content through digital entertainment services is a relatively new extension of the digital entertainment marketplace. While we have entered into a variety of video distribution agreements and have distributed video content to the major video retailers, the resulting revenues have been limited. If we are unable to enter into additional video distribution agreements on commercially favorable terms, this could limit our future revenue. Additionally, some of our existing agreements with certain digital entertainment services are based on sharing advertising revenue associated with the video content it will make available through such partners. Advertising-supported revenue models associated with the distribution of video content are evolving, with many of our partners still in the test-marketing phase of developing their video distribution services. There can be no assurances as to the potential revenue that we may generate under these models. Our success in video distribution depends on consumer demand for our video content. In addition, our success in digitally distributing video content depends on the market demand for digital video recordings and our ability to acquire and offer for purchase or advertising-supported viewing video 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS content that appeals to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. We cannot accurately assess or control consumer demand for our digital video content. Digital video distribution is in its infancy and technical requirements are evolving which could limit our potential revenue. The process for digitally encoding video content and packaging it for delivery to meet the technical requirements of our digital entertainment service partners is more complex and time consuming than processing music content. The technical requirements continue to evolve and we may encounter unexpected difficulties in adapting our processes or in meeting the technical requirements of the digital entertainment services as they continue to be refined. If this is the case, we may have to make significant investments in our technology and operating cost structure to meet evolving technical requirements. Any delay in processing and delivering video content to the digital entertainment services may cause delays in expected revenue growth and any significant changes to current processing requirements could increase our costs and delay or impede our ability to achieve a profit from the distribution of video content. Additionally, based on our experience to date, a number of digital entertainment service providers have initially limited the amount and type of video content they will accept based on their capacity constraints and/or content selection criteria. If digital entertainment services continue to limit the types or amount of video content they will accept and we are unable to exploit all of the video content we have under contract, our revenue potential could be limited. If the music content we provide to digital entertainment services does not appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences, our revenue will decrease. Our success depends on our ability to acquire or license digital rights and offer to consumers digital music content that appeals to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. We cannot accurately assess or control consumer demand for our music content. Our historical revenue is based on the number of music recordings available for purchase at digital entertainment services, which remained relatively small in numbers until late 2005. Seasonality and other trends in consumer demand for music have been difficult to assess from this limited historical data, however, we suspect that the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year may have seasonally higher sales, because this is the peak time for sales of music recordings in physical format, portable digital music players and other digital music listening and video devices including mobile phones (generally ascribed to increased consumer spending due to the holidays). In the future, our current music content and the additional music content we make available to consumers may not experience similar demand. Any reduction in the popularity of our music content with consumers will cause a reduction in our revenue. Our business involves identifying and locating the holders of digital rights to additional music and video content, and failure to do so will limit our revenue growth. Our ability to continue to increase our revenue depends on our ability to continue to acquire digital rights to music and video content. Ownership of music and video content is highly fragmented and not organized in a common marketplace. There is no central registry or directory of content owners and finding them can be difficult and time-consuming. We currently rely on our business development personnel, on networks of relationships and on market research to locate content owners, as well as our reputation in the industry and targeted advertising to attract content owners seeking to access the digital market. In the future, our ability to continue to identify, locate and attract such content owners will have a significant impact on the amount of content we are able to acquire. Our inability to enter into agreements to acquire additional digital rights to music and video content on commercially favorable terms could impede our growth and increase our expenses. The growth of our business is dependent, in large part, on our ability to acquire or license digital rights to additional music and video content. Even if we are able to locate additional content owners, they may not be willing to sell or license their digital rights or we may not be able to negotiate terms that are commercially favorable to us (particularly given the competitive environment of our industry). While we believe that our experience and knowledge in the music industry allows us to determine commercially reasonable prices for 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS music and video content, we may be unable to objectively determine fair market value for the digital rights to the content that we acquire because of unknown consumer demand for such content, unknown number of additional owners of digital rights to such content in certain cases and absence of independent valuations for music and video content. If content owners are unwilling to sell or license their rights on terms that we have determined are commercially favorable to us, we will not be able to substantially increase our revenue. We face competition from companies seeking to acquire the digital rights to music and video content, which could negatively impact our ability to acquire additional digital rights. The market for acquiring digital rights from content owners is competitive, especially for the distribution of music catalogs owned by independent labels. The number of commercialized music and video recordings available for acquisition is large, but limited, and many of the more desirable music recordings are already subject to digital distribution agreements or have been directly placed with digital entertainment services. We face competition in our pursuit to acquire additional music and video content, which may limit the amount of available music and video content for sale or license and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Our competitors may from time to time offer better terms of acquisition to content owners. Subsidiaries of the four major record labels, which have always aggressively competed to provide physical distribution for independent labels, have become increasingly active in the digital market segment. These companies have the ability to offer the consolidation of both physical and digital distribution through a major record label, can offer reduced physical distribution fees in order to gain the digital distribution rights from independent labels and other content owners and can condition an agreement to distribute physical content on the inclusion of digital rights. While we are offering physical distribution to select labels in addition to our core business of digital distribution of music and video content, our physical distribution services have limited operating history and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully sign labels to this service. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantial resources to acquiring digital rights to music and video recordings. In addition, our competitors may form strategic alliances with record labels and digital entertainment services that could result in increased competition for the acquisition of music recordings, service offerings or favorable terms with the digital entertainment services. Increased competition for the acquisition of digital rights to music and video recordings may result in a reduction in our operating margins, market share and brand. We are substantially dependent on a limited number of digital entertainment services, in particular iTunes, for the sale of our content. We derive our revenue from a small number of leading digital entertainment services that make our content available to consumers. We generally deliver our music and video content to these digital entertainment services in priority of their significance to us. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we received 55% and 54% of our revenue from iTunes, respectively. For the same periods, we received 8% and 11% of our revenue from eMusic. We have a number of agreements with iTunes which expire over a period of time beginning in October 2009 through July 2011. If we are not able to continue to renew our relationships with iTunes and other digital entertainment services that make our music and video content available to consumers on similar economic terms, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly reduced. Our accounts receivable are concentrated with a limited number of digital entertainment services, particularly iTunes, which subjects us to substantial payment risk. We rely on reports from digital entertainment services detailing download and other activity to determine our revenue, and such reports are typically provided to us within 30 to 45 days following the end of the reporting period, generally monthly. We receive payment at approximately the same time as we receive these detailed revenue reports. Our accounts receivable therefore consists of approximately one month’s revenue (or one quarter in the case of certain digital entertainment services that report quarterly). As of December 31, 2008, accounts receivable from iTunes represented 26% of total accounts receivable, compared to 34% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2007, and accounts receivable from eMusic represented 8% and 14% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The concentration of our accounts receivable among a small number of digital entertainment services is likely to continue and we expect our accounts receivable to become larger as we grow. We had a $969,586 and $427,000 allowance for doubtful 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. However, if any significant digital entertainment services are unable to pay us as due each month (or quarter, as the case may be), it could disrupt our business and cause us to report a bad debt loss in excess of amounts provided for potential doubtful accounts. We have entered into multi-year agreements for digital rights to music and video content and if we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially favorable terms as they expire, our revenue could materially decrease. Our long-term success depends upon, among other things, our ability to renew our non-perpetual rights to music and video content once they expire. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 77% and 71% of our revenue was derived from digital music distributed under short-term distribution agreements that expire in one to five years depending on certain factors. We are aware that our competitors have solicited a number of the record labels we have under short-term distribution agreements, just as we have solicited their record label clients in this highly competitive market. While we do not expect any net material decrease in revenue and gross profit from these activities, if our competition becomes increasingly aggressive or our level of service provided to our record label clients is not superior to our competition, we may experience a higher rate of non-renewal than we have in the past for our short-term digital distribution agreements. If any of our competitors offer better terms, it could cause us to spend more money or grant better terms, or both, to renew the digital rights we currently hold. In addition, the larger and more prestigious independent record labels, which have traditionally accessed the digital music market through distribution companies like us, could seek direct distribution with digital music retailers when their agreements with us expire (or, in the alternative, choose to deliver directly to one or more of the largest digital music retailers, such as iTunes, and use distributors only for the lesser retailers). If we are unable to renew the non-perpetual rights to our music and video content on commercially favorable terms, our revenue could materially decrease. Other parties may have digital rights, or claim to have such rights, to our music content, which may result in duplicates of the music recordings we sell to be available for purchase at the digital music services and cause a reduction in our revenue. We generally acquire or license all of the digital rights that the owner of music content has available to grant; however, the holders of such rights may not possess exclusive rights to those music recordings. We are unable to determine the number of additional holders of rights to our music recordings. Aside from copyright law, the rights to music recordings are contractual in nature. There is no central registry or directory that evidences the chain of title to the rights of music recordings other than copyright registration, which is voluntary. Given the age of many of the music recordings we have acquired or licensed or may acquire or license in the future, there is often a lack of documentation to evidence the chain of title. In addition, there is a common practice in the music industry of licensing rights in various formats or in certain compilations and to grant the same rights to different parties for the same or different geographic regions. Our content acquisition and distribution agreements contain representations, warranties and indemnities only with respect to the digital rights granted to us and not with respect to the rights held by other parties. We are aware of numerous instances where other parties have legitimate digital rights to the same music recordings to which we have acquired or licensed the digital rights. If copies of our music recordings are available at the digital music services from alternative sources, our revenue will be reduced to the extent these copies are purchased instead of ours. We may not receive legal title to the digital rights of music content that we have paid to acquire or license, and any determination that we don’t hold such rights may subject us to write-offs, claims for damages and lost profits. Our acquisition and distribution agreements with content owners contain representations, warranties and indemnities with respect to the digital rights granted to us. In certain instances, we have purchased or licensed digital rights that were determined not to be held by the holder from whom we acquired or licensed those rights. If we were to acquire or make a cash advance for digital content and make available for purchase music recordings from a person who did not actually own such rights and we were unable to enforce or collect on the representations, warranties and indemnities made by such person, our business would be 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS adversely affected. We would be required to write-off the cost of the acquisition or advance, lose the rights to sell such music and might be subject to copyright infringement lawsuits for selling such music recordings without the right to do so. Some of our largest label accounts have drawn multiple adverse claims of this kind. Such lawsuits are expensive to defend, regardless of the outcome, and could subject us to damages, which could be significant. Finally, these situations could adversely impact our reputation with content owners and our relationships with digital music services, which could adversely affect our business. The declining market for physical recordings (such as albums or CDs) could affect the financial health of our label client base, which could have a negative effect on our business. Sales of physical recordings (albums and, primarily, CDs) are still the primary source of revenues for the recording industry generally. Recently, physical sales have been declining but the anticipated increase in digital revenue has not yet made up for the decline in physical revenues. The decline in revenues from physical sales could negatively affect the finances of our independent label clients, many of whom are thinly capitalized and/or suffer marginal cash flow. This decline in income could affect their ability to continue to sign new artists, market their current artists or even stay in business, which could have a negative effect on our business. We could be liable for unpaid mechanical royalty obligations and bear liability for copyright infringement if our label clients fail to license and/or pay mechanical copyright royalties owed or if, where contractually obligated to do so, we fail to properly license and/or pay mechanical copyright royalties, which could have a negative effect on our business. Mechanical royalties are the statutory or other payment due to the publisher of the underlying musical composition embodied in the master recording. We administer mechanical royalties for certain artists and record labels. All other artists and labels that we distribute represent and warrant to us that they will secure the appropriate licenses and pay any royalties due, and agree to indemnify us if they do not. We believe this is common practice among digital distributors. As a result, in certain instances and under certain circumstances, if the required payments are not made, we could be liable for unpaid mechanical royalty obligations and bear liability for copyright infringement, which could have a negative effect on our business. If content owners fail to deliver, or if there are long delays in the time it takes to receive the music and video content that we acquire rights to, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted and our cash flow will be affected adversely. Our business plan and growth strategy depend on increasing the amount of our music and video content available to consumers at digital entertainment services. Our purchase agreements and our long-term distribution agreements typically require the content owners to deliver their music and video content to us according to pre-determined timetables. Our short-term distribution agreements do not generally include a specific delivery timetable, although the content owner is generally required to provide its entire catalogue to us promptly following execution of the agreement. In addition to the content, our agreements require the content owner to provide us certain descriptive information about each music recording or video. Referred to as metadata, this information is required by the digital entertainment services and includes recording title, album title, artist name, genre, copyright information, label name, unique product identifier, artwork, biographical information, sales information and date of release. Some acquired content may only be available in older physical formats (e.g., audio tape, vinyl records, film and video tape). In such an event, the content must be transferred onto CD or DVD prior to being delivered to us. It often takes several months following execution of the agreement before the content owner delivers the music and video content to us. At times the quality of the content or metadata delivered is insufficient or incomplete, requiring follow-up to receive proper and complete delivery; however, such extra effort does not assure such problems will be cured. Even when we provide an advance against future royalties and make such advance payments conditional upon the delivery of content according to a pre-determined timetable, we have no way to control the timing of complete receipt of the acquired content. Moreover, content owners sometimes deliver more or less content than contractually required. We are not typically required to pay additional sums for deliveries in excess of those which are contractually required. Furthermore, we are not typically required to pay for any undelivered, defective or otherwise unusable content. Nonetheless, our expected revenue growth rate is negatively impacted when we do not receive all of the 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS contractually required content. If it takes a long time for the content owners to provide us with both the music and video content in physical format and the complete metadata, we are delayed in converting the content into the digital formats required by digital entertainment services. This can also lead to inefficiencies in the utilization of our operations personnel who process this content. Any delay in making our music and video content available for purchase at the digital entertainment services impedes our revenue growth and negatively affects our cash flow. Any extended delay by digital entertainment services in processing and making our music and video content available to consumers causes a delay in our ability to earn revenue from such content. Following receipt of music and video content from the owners, we convert them into the specific digital formats required by digital entertainment services. We then deliver the music and video content in digital format, together with their associated descriptive information and artwork, to the digital entertainment services to be made available to consumers in the specific territories where we have acquired the digital rights. The digital entertainment services must then review our music and video content, descriptive information and artwork to ensure that they are in the proper format for their store or service. The content is only made available to consumers once the digital retailer or service has completed its review, encrypted the content with the particular retailer’s (if applicable) digital rights management protection and other retailer or service-specific coding, and posted the digital files on the retailer’s or service’s computer servers. We are subject to the digital entertainment services’ internal processing timing and priorities. Our agreements with the digital entertainment services do not provide for a fixed processing time. Any extended delay in making our music and video content available to consumers causes a delay in when we can begin to earn revenue and return on investment from our content. If we seek to acquire content through the acquisition of record labels or other companies that own master rights to music or video content, we may not be able to successfully integrate these companies. We may attempt to acquire record labels or other companies that own master rights to music or video content for purposes of acquiring their digital rights. In the event we are able to acquire such record labels or other companies, we may be subject to a number of risks related to the integration and management of such companies, including failure to obtain valid consents to assignment of contracts, including contracts granting rights to music content, failure of the business of the acquired company to achieve expected results, diversion of our management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired company, as well as the assumption of certain liabilities owed to such record labels’ and companies’ original grantors, artists, music publishers and other third parties. In addition, if we undertake an acquisition of a company that operates non-digital businesses or owns non-digital rights to music and video content, we may attempt to operate the non-digital businesses or sell the non-digital rights to another person or entity, and we may not be able to do so in a manner or on terms favorable to us. If we are not able to integrate and scale our reporting and payment processes, we may experience delays providing reports to the content owners and paying required royalties that could have a negative effect on our brand identity. We receive regular sales reports from digital entertainment services that contain sales information for our music and video content. Based on these reports, we provide summary and detailed reports to the content owners. When we acquire the perpetual digital rights to music content and in certain of our distribution agreements, we may assume the obligations of the content owner to pay any required royalty payments to the artists according to the terms of the existing agreements. In addition, we may be required to pay statutory publishing royalties on behalf of the content owner according to the terms of our agreements. As we acquire digital rights to additional music and video content, we may experience difficulties in preparing and distributing sales reports for the content owners or processing and paying artist and publishing royalties in a timely fashion, which could result in adverse claims by content owners. If we are not able to successfully expand our processing capability or introduce technology to allow us to determine and pay royalty amounts due and automate these tasks, we may experience delays as we increase the volume of our music and video content, which could have a negative effect on our relationships with content owners and brand identity. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may need to raise additional capital to accomplish our objectives and, if we are unable to raise such funds as needed, our growth would be limited. We may use our common stock in addition to our cash for the consideration for future acquisitions of digital rights to additional music and video content and/or for the acquisition of other businesses in the digital media industry. If our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value or content and business owners are unwilling to accept common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of the digital rights to their music and video content or their businesses or as consideration for licensed rights to their music and video content, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available. On February 5, 2009, we entered into a secured revolving credit arrangement with Peninsula Bank Business Funding, a division of the Private Bank of the Peninsula, under which we can borrow an amount that does not exceed 80% of our eligible accounts receivable up to a maximum amount of $3 million, secured by accounts receivable and inventory. This facility is for one year. We intend to be more aggressive in acquiring additional digital rights to music and video content and may require additional financing in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our ability to acquire additional rights to music and video content and ancillary businesses could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain additional financing or financing after the expiration of the facility will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Using cash to finance acquisitions could substantially limit our financial flexibility and using debt could result in financial covenants that limit our operations and financial flexibility. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock and our common stockholders may experience dilution. We face a potential loss of music content if it is determined that recording artists have a right to recapture rights in their content under the U.S. Copyright Act. The U.S. Copyright Act provides authors and their heirs a right to terminate licenses or assignments of rights in their copyrighted works that were not “works made for hire.” If any of our music content were determined not to be “works made for hire,” then the recording artists or their heirs could have the right to terminate the rights we hold. These residual author rights generally survive for five years after the end of the 35-year period from the date of a post-1977 license or assignment, and in the case of a pre-1978 grant in a pre-1978 recording, five years after the end of the 56-year period from the date of creation or January 1, 1978, whichever is later. Any termination of our rights to our music content could result in a material reduction in our revenue. Our debt could adversely affect our financial performance. On February 5, 2009, we entered into a secured revolving credit arrangement with Peninsula Bank Business Funding, a division of the Private Bank of the Peninsula, under which we can borrow an amount that does not exceed 80% of our eligible accounts receivable up to a maximum amount of $3 million, secured by accounts receivable and inventory. The terms of the agreement require us to pay a minimum quarterly interest of $20,000 whether or not we have any outstanding borrowings. We currently have no outstanding borrowings. Furthermore, the term of the facility is only for one year and, if at the end of the term we have an outstanding balance, and do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay the balance, we may have to sell assets or obtain another loan on terms which may not be as favorable. We are obligated to comply with financial covenants in our indebtedness that could restrict our range of operating activities: Our secured revolving credit facility contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our common stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS • sell certain assets; • create liens on certain assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • acquire assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, we are required to satisfy and maintain certain quarterly net income/(loss) projections and monthly cash projections. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our majority stockholder, Dimensional Associates, LLC, or Dimensional, has significant influence on all stockholder votes and has effective control over the outcome of actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Dimensional beneficially owns shares of our capital stock representing approximately 54% of the outstanding voting power of our capital stock. Dimensional thus has the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management policies and strategic focus, could control the outcome of almost any matter submitted to our stockholders and has the ability to elect or remove all of our directors. There is a risk that the interests of Dimensional will not be consistent with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Dimensional has significant control over our business and significant transactions. In addition to the effects described above, Dimensional’s control of our company could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or for us to use our stock as consideration in acquisitions. This concentrated ownership also might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Sales of common stock by Dimensional could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In connection with the Merger, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Dimensional and the other former stockholders of Orchard NY requiring us, under certain circumstances, to register all of the shares of common stock that are beneficially owned by them as a result of the Merger. The exercise of these registration rights or sale by Dimensional in the public market pursuant to any such registration could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our operations and for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance standards, which may limit the presence of independent directors on our board of directors or board committees. Dimensional Associates, LLC, or Dimensional, beneficially owns shares of our capital stock which represent approximately 54% of the outstanding voting power of our capital stock. Accordingly, Dimensional has the ability to elect our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” for purposes of Nasdaq Rule 4350(c)(5). Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We currently utilize one of these exemptions in that only a majority, and not all, of the directors comprising our Executive, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are independent and we may utilize additional exemptions in the future. Accordingly, the procedures for approving significant corporate decisions can be determined by directors who have a direct or indirect interest in the matters and our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to fully comply with the Nasdaq rules. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock with rights and designations determined solely by our board of directors; and • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to the Delaware anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on this provision to prevent or delay an acquisition of our company. Our stock price is subject to fluctuation and has declined significantly and could result in our being delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. The price at which our common stock has traded since its initial public offering in February 2006 has fluctuated significantly, particularly in recent months. The price is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • imbalances between the market supply and demand for shares of our stock due to the limited number of shares available in the public float; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; • conditions and trends in online commerce industries and the mobile communications industry, particularly as they relate to the digital entertainment services and mobile carriers; and • investor perception of and confidence in capital markets and equity investments. Our stock is not actively traded and we cannot assure you that a regular trading market of our shares will develop or be sustained. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price or trade them on the NASDAQ Global Market if our stock price fails to meet the continued listing standards. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by existing stockholders (such as Dimensional) in the public market may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock. Shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options granted to our employees and directors also may be sold in the public market. Such sales could create the perception to the public of difficulties or problems with our business. As a result, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and price that we deem necessary or appropriate. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS this type of litigation. However, if such litigation is directed at us, it could result in substantial costs, including the deductible amount under our insurance policy and other indirect costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 