Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility or declines in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to comply with the minimum requirements for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline. Our stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must meet specific quantitative standards, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 for our common stock, a public float of $1.0 million, and either $2.5 million in stockholders equity or a market capitalization of $35 million. We are currently in compliance with these standards, but it is possible that we may fail to be in compliance in the future. If the Nasdaq Stock Market provides us with a notice of non-compliance, we may provide a plan to achieve and sustain compliance with continued listing requirements. If we submit the plan and it is accepted by Nasdaq, Nasdaq may grant us a period of up to 105 days from the date of the notice of non-compliance within which to regain compliance with the listing requirements. If Nasdaq determines that our plan is not sufficient to achieve and sustain compliance, or if we are unable to achieve compliance within such period, Nasdaq will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted. At such time, we may appeal the decision to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. If that appeal is unsuccessful, our securities would be delisted. If we were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading, if any, in our shares may continue to be conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or in a non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market, such as the “pink sheets.” Delisting of our shares would result in limited release of the market price of those shares and limited analyst coverage and could restrict investors’ interest in our securities. Also, a delisting could have a material adverse effect on the trading market and prices for our shares and our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. In addition, if our shares were not listed and the trading price of our shares was less than $5.00 per share, our shares could be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act which, among other 31 Table of Contents things, requires that broker/dealers satisfy special sales practice requirements, including making individualized written suitability determinations and receiving a purchaser’s written consent prior to any transaction. In such case, our securities could also be deemed to be a “penny stock” under the Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which would require additional disclosure in connection with trades in those shares, including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. Such requirements could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital in an already challenging capital market. If we are unable to maintain an effective registration statement for the resale of shares under our July 2009 private placement, or if we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, we may be required to pay liquidated damages. In July 2009, we issued 5.1 million shares of common stock at $1.05 per share and seven-year warrants to purchase up to 5.1 million additional shares of common stock, exercisable in cash or by net exercise at a price of $1.155 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $6.0 million and net proceeds of $5.7 million after deducting offering costs of $0.3 million. In connection with the private placement, we agreed to register for resale both the shares of common stock purchased by the investors and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The resale registration statement was filed and declared effective by the SEC in August 2009. We also agreed to other customary obligations regarding registration, including matters relating to indemnification, maintenance of the registration statement and payment of expenses. We may be liable for liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement or the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, in each case for a period of ten consecutive days or for more than thirty days in any 365-day period. The amount of the liquidated damages is one percent per applicable ten or thirty day period, subject to an aggregate maximum of eight percent per calendar year, of the aggregate purchase price of the common stock purchased in the private placement then held by each investor that are registrable securities. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 18, 2010, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5 percent or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 52.2% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Investors may incur substantial dilution as a result of future equity issuances, and, as a result, our stock price could decline. Based on our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital levels, we will have to raise substantial additional funds. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Because we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business, among other things, we may conduct substantial additional equity offerings. For example, in July 2009, we completed a private placement of 5.1 million shares of our common stock at a price of $1.05 per share and seven-year warrants to purchase up to 5.1 million additional shares of our common stock, exercisable in cash or by net exercise at a price of $1.155 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $6.0 million and net proceeds of $5.7 million after deducting offering costs of $0.3 million. This offering resulted, and future equity issuances will result, in dilution to investors. In addition, the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, including the warrants issued in our recent private placement, and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions or incentive programs, will result in dilution to investors. 32 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We expend substantial costs and management resources as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements has caused us to expend substantial costs and management resources and will continue to do so. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers. In June 2007, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board approved Auditing Standard No. 5, and at the same time, the SEC issued guidance for management for complying with the requirements of Section 404. This auditing standard and the related management guidance provides a more risk-based approach to compliance and testing under Section 404. However, we still expect to incur substantial costs and to devote significant resources to corporate governance matters. In addition, as a result of the workforce reductions we undertook in 2009 in order to reduce expenses, the efforts required to comply with Section 404 and the other corporate governance laws and regulations applicable to us are being undertaken by a smaller number of people. For example, in May 2009 the employment of our Chief Financial Officer was terminated in order to reduce expenses, resulting in our Chief Executive Officer undertaking the roles of both principal executive officer and principal financial officer. If we, or the third-party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or if our registered public accounting firm cannot complete any required attestation of our evaluation of our internal controls in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments relating to our periodic or current reports. 