Risk Factors.” Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality provisions and contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary rights, including our know-how. We have filed trademark applications for the names Digital Music Group and Digital Musicworks International as well as for the trademarks DMG, Digital OnRamp and our logo design. Employees As of March 20, 2006, we had 15 full-time employees. Among these employees, three were senior management, four were in business development, four were in accounting and administration, and four were in 9 Table of Contents operations. None of these employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. We intend to increase the number of our personnel substantially over the next twelve months. Other Information Our principal executive offices are located at 1545 River Park Drive, Suite 210, Sacramento, California 95815 and our telephone number at that location is (916) 239-6010. We have entered into a new lease effective April 1, 2006, to move our principal executive offices to 2151 River Plaza Drive, Sacramento, California 95823. Our website is located at www.digitalmusicgroupinc.com. The contents of our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our investor relations website is located at http://investor.digitalmusicgroupinc.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website under the link “SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website that contains our filings at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We have a limited operating history and have experienced net losses to date and we may not be able to become profitable or generate positive cash flow in the future. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stage of development in a rapidly evolving industry. Digital Music Group, Inc. was formed in April 2005 and had no operations prior to the acquisitions of Digital Musicworks International, Inc. and certain assets of Rio Bravo Entertainment LLC in February 2006, other than in connection with the acquisitions and our initial public offering. As a pro forma combined entity, we have experienced net losses of approximately $2.3 million from inception through December 31, 2005, and we have not yet been able to generate positive cash flow from operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate net income and positive cash flow from operations in the future. As a result of our limited operating history, we may fail to meet our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving nature of our industry make forecasting quarterly and annual operating results difficult. We may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenue is lower than we project. Any significant increase in our expenses or shortfall in our revenue would be detrimental to our business, operating results and financial condition and could cause our results of operation to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. As a result, you should not rely on our historical results as an indicator of our future performance. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of Digital Musicworks International, Inc. and the acquired assets of Rio Bravo Entertainment LLC, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our costs of operations will increase if we are unable to successfully combine the acquired operations of Digital Musicworks International, Inc. and assets of Rio Bravo Entertainment LLC or integrate the systems and procedures, including accounting, financial reporting and information technology of the combined entity. Our financial results cover periods during which we were not under common control or management and, therefore, may not be indicative of our future financial or operating results. Our failure to integrate Digital Musicworks International, Inc. and the acquired assets of Rio Bravo Entertainment LLC and obtain all the benefit of the content license agreements and employee and business relationships of Digital Musicworks International and Rio Bravo Entertainment LLC could impair our future revenue and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to identify and locate the holders of digital rights to additional music recordings, and failure to do so will limit our revenue growth. Our goal is to continue to acquire digital rights to music recordings in order to substantially increase our revenue. Ownership of music recordings is highly fragmented and not organized in a common marketplace. There is no registry or directory of the holders of digital rights to music recordings that we may wish to acquire. Finding the owners of music recordings and associated digital rights can be difficult and time-consuming. We currently rely on our network of relationships and market research to locate content owners. In the future, our ability to continue to identify and locate such content owners will have a significant impact on the amount of content we are able to acquire. Our inability to enter into agreements to acquire additional digital rights to music recordings on commercially favorable terms could impede our growth and increase our expenses. Our business is dependent on our ability to acquire digital rights to additional music recordings. Even if we are able to locate additional content owners, they may not be willing to sell or license the digital rights to their music recordings or we may not be able to negotiate terms that are commercially favorable to us. While we believe that our experience and knowledge in the music industry and our operating history allows us to determine commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to objectively determine fair market value for the digital rights to music recordings that we acquire because of unknown consumer demand for such recordings, unknown number of additional owners of digital rights to such recordings in certain cases and absence of independent valuations for these music recordings. If these content owners are unwilling to sell or license their rights on terms that we have determined are commercially favorable to us, we will not be able to substantially increase our revenue. We face competition from companies seeking to acquire the digital rights to music recordings, which could negatively impact our ability to acquire additional digital rights to music recordings. The market for acquiring digital rights from content owners is competitive, although the majority of our known current competitors are focused on short-term distribution arrangements, whereas our focus is on acquiring digital rights under long-term license or purchase agreements. The number of commercialized music recordings available for acquisition is large, but limited. We expect to face competition in our pursuit to acquire additional music recordings, which may limit the number of available music recordings for sale or license and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Our competitors may from time to time offer better terms of acquisition to content owners. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to acquiring digital rights to music recordings. In addition, our competitors may form strategic alliances with record labels and online music stores that could result in increased competition for the acquisition of music recordings, service offerings or favorable terms with the online music stores. Increased competition for the acquisition of digital rights to music recordings may result in a reduction in our operating margins, market share and brand. 11 Table of Contents We may acquire record labels or other companies that own master rights to music recordings, and if we are unable to successfully acquire or integrate these companies, we may not be able to acquire additional recordings or grow our revenue. We may attempt to acquire record labels or other companies that own master rights to music recordings for purposes of acquiring their digital rights. If we are not able to successfully acquire such companies, we may not be able to acquire additional recordings or grow our revenue. In the event we are able to acquire other companies, we may be subject to a number of risks related to the integration and management of such companies, including failure to obtain valid consents to assignment of contracts, including contracts granting rights to music recordings, failure of the business of the acquired company to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, and failure to retain key personnel of the acquired company. In addition, if we undertake an acquisition of a company that owns digital and other rights to music recordings, we may attempt to operate the non-digital businesses or sell the non-digital rights to another person or entity, and we may not be able to do so in a manner or on terms favorable to us. If the music recordings that we provide to the online music stores do not appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences, our revenue will decrease. Our success depends on our ability to acquire and offer for purchase music recordings that appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. We cannot accurately assess or control consumer demand for our music recordings. We do not own rights to current popular hits and may never acquire rights to these music recordings. Our historical sales are based on a limited library of music recordings available for purchase at the online music stores. In the future, our current music recordings and the additional music recordings we make available for purchase may not experience similar demand. Any reduction in the number of downloads of our music recordings by consumers will cause a reduction in our revenue. The digital music industry is in its infancy and we are vulnerable to discounting, price-reductions, pricing structure and stocking changes that may evolve in the industry and as a result, cause a reduction in our revenue. We receive revenue based on the wholesale prices determined by the online music stores based, to a large extent, on the price charged to consumers by the online music stores. Currently, the largest online music store, iTunes, charges consumers $0.99 per music recording download. We believe certain major record labels in the music industry are attempting to change the online pricing model so that the price for current popular hits will be over $1.00, while older or less current music recordings will be sold for less. Because we are primarily focused on acquiring or licensing the digital rights to independent label, back catalogue, past hits and out-of-print music recordings and are not focused on current popular hits we would be subject to any such unfavorable pricing changes. We have limited ability to influence the pricing models of the online music stores. If the online music stores adopt a lower pricing model for our music recordings or if there is a pricing structure change to a flat-fee subscription or other similar pricing models, we may receive substantially less per download for our music recordings, which could cause a material reduction in our revenue, unless it is offset by a corresponding increase in the number of downloads. Additionally, Apple iTunes and other online music stores at present accept and post for sale all the music recordings that we and other distributors deliver to them. However, if online stores in the future decide to limit the types or amount of music recordings they will accept from digital music content owners and distributors like us, our revenue could be significantly reduced. We are substantially dependent on a limited number of online music stores, in particular Apple iTunes Music Store, for the sale of our music recordings. We derive our revenue from a small number of leading online music stores that sell to consumers the digital music recordings that we acquire or control through licenses. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we received 87% of our revenue from iTunes, compared to 93% of our revenue from iTunes for the year ended December 31, 12 Table of Contents 2004. Our agreements with Apple iTunes have terms of three years ending in April 2007. Under the terms of the agreements, Apple is required to pay us an agreed upon wholesale price for each recording sold by Apple. If we are not able to renew our relationship with iTunes and other online music stores that offer our music recordings for sale on similar economic terms, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly reduced. Our accounts receivable are concentrated with a limited number of online music stores, particularly Apple iTunes, which subjects us to substantial payment risk. We rely on reports from the online music stores detailing download activity to determine our revenue, and such reports are typically provided to us within 30 days following the end of the month. We receive payment at approximately the same time as we receive these reports of download activity. Our accounts receivable therefore consists of approximately one month’s revenue. We currently have music recordings for sale at 10 online music stores, and as of December 31, 2005, accounts receivable from Apple iTunes Music Store represented 81% of our total accounts receivable, compared to 76% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2004. This concentration of accounts receivable among a small number of online music stores is likely to continue and we expect our accounts receivable to become larger as we grow. If any of these online music stores are unable to pay us as due each month, it could disrupt our business and cause us to report a bad debt loss. Other parties may have digital rights, or claim to have such rights, to our music recordings, which may result in duplicates of the music recordings we sell to be available for purchase at the online music stores and cause a reduction in our revenue. We generally acquire all of the digital rights that the content owner of music recordings has available to grant; however, the holders of such rights may not possess exclusive rights to those music recordings. We are unable to determine the number of additional holders of rights to our music recordings. Aside from copyright law, the rights to music recordings are contractual in nature. There is no central registry that evidences the chain of title to the rights of music recordings other than copyright registration, which is voluntary. Given the age of many of the music recordings we have or may acquire, there is often a lack of documentation to evidence the chain of title of rights we acquire. In addition, there is a common practice in the music industry of licensing rights in various formats or in certain compilations and to grant the same rights to different parties for the same or different geographic regions. Our content acquisition agreements contain representations, warranties and indemnities only with respect to the digital rights granted to us and not with respect to the rights held by other parties. Because more than one party may have the right to sell the same music recording, we have acquired, and we expect in the future to acquire, rights to multiple copies of the same music recording. In such instances, we become entitled to payment for download activity for both copies, to the extent they are both purchased by consumers at the online music stores. Additionally, we are aware of numerous instances where other parties have digital rights to the same music recordings to which we have digital rights. If copies of our music recordings are available at the online music stores from alternative sources, our revenue will be reduced to the extent these copies are purchased instead of ours. We may not receive legal title to the digital rights of music recordings that we have paid to acquire, and any determination that we don’t hold such rights may subject us to damages for revenue received. Our agreements contain representations, warranties and indemnities with respect to the digital rights granted to us. In at least one instance, we purchased digital rights that were determined not to be held by the holder from whom we acquired those rights. If we were to acquire and make available for purchase music recordings from a person who did not actually own such rights, our business would be adversely affected. We would lose the rights to sell such music and might be subject to copyright infringement lawsuits for selling such music recordings without the right to do so. Finally, it could materially impact our reputation with content owners and our relationships with online music stores, which could adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents If there are long delays in the time it takes to receive the music recordings that we acquire rights to, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted and our cash flow will be affected adversely. Implementation of our business plan and growth strategy depends on increasing the number of music recordings we have available for purchase by consumers at the online music stores. Our purchase and long-term license agreements typically require the content owners of the music recordings to deliver to us their music recordings. Under our short-term license agreements, there are no delivery terms. Certain of the music recordings we acquire may be in older physical formats such as audio tape or vinyl records that require processing onto compact disc prior to being delivered to us. In addition, our agreements require that certain descriptive information required by the online music stores for each music recording be delivered with the music recordings, such as recording title, album title, artist name, genre, copyright information, label name, unique product identifier, artwork, biographical information, sales information and date of release. Historically, it has at times taken several months or longer after we have entered into an agreement before we have received delivery of all of the music recordings acquired. Although we generally specify delivery dates and make certain cash payments by us conditional upon delivery, we do not have control over the timing for receipt of the music recordings acquired. If there are long delays in the time it takes for the content owners to deliver to us the music recordings in physical format and the related descriptive information, it will delay our ability to begin the process of converting the music recordings into the digital formats required by the online music stores. It could also cause inefficiencies in the utilization of our operations personnel who process these recordings. Any delay in making our music recordings available for purchase at the online music stores will delay our revenue growth, and inefficiencies caused by such delays could cause a reduction in our cash flow in the interim. We have entered into multi-year agreements for digital rights to music recordings and if we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially favorable terms once they expire, our revenue could materially decrease. Our long-term success depends upon, among other things, our ability to renew our non-perpetual rights to music recordings once they expire. If any of our competitors offer better terms, it will cause us to spend more money or grant better terms, or both, to renew the rights we currently hold. If we are unable to renew the non-perpetual rights to our music recordings on commercially favorable terms, our revenue could materially decrease. If we are not able to scale our reporting and payment processes, we may experience delays providing reports to the content owners and paying required royalties that could have a negative effect on our brand identity. We receive regular sales reports from online music stores that contain sales information for each of our music recordings. Based on these reports, we provide summary reports to the content owners. When we acquire the perpetual digital rights to music recordings and in certain of our license agreements, we may assume the obligations of the content owner to pay any required royalty payments to the artists according to the terms of the existing agreements. In addition, we may be required to pay statutory publishing royalties on behalf of the content owner according to the terms of our agreements. We have not fully implemented the systems required to process these royalties. We have accrued for future payment of royalties based on our calculations of such amounts due, but have not paid any of these amounts. As we acquire digital rights to additional music recordings, we may experience difficulties in preparing and distributing sales reports for the content owners or processing and paying artist and publishing royalties in a timely fashion. If we are not able to successfully expand our processing capability or introduce technology to allow us to determine and pay royalty amounts due and automate these tasks, we may experience delays as we increase the number of our music recordings, which could have a negative effect on our relationships with content owners and brand identity. 14 Table of Contents The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could cause a disruption in our relationships with the online music stores and content owners. We depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including Mitchell Koulouris, our Chief Executive Officer and President. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, they may decide to terminate their employment or otherwise cease to be employed by us. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our personnel. As we grow, our business will be dependent on our ability to recruit, employ and retain additional management and other skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract other key personnel could disrupt and limit our ability to grow our business. Piracy is likely to continue to negatively impact our potential revenue. Our revenue comes from the sale of our digital music recordings over the Internet and wireless and cable networks, which is subject to unauthorized consumer copying and widespread dissemination on the Internet without an economic return to us. Global piracy is a significant threat to the music industry generally and to us. Unauthorized copies and piracy have contributed to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales of recorded music and have put pressure on the price of legitimate sales. We face a potential loss of music recordings if it is determined that recording artists have a right to recapture rights in their recordings under the U.S. Copyright Act. The U.S. Copyright Act provides authors and their heirs a right to terminate licenses or assignments of rights in their copyrighted works that were not “works made for hire”. If any of our music recordings were determined not to be “works made for hire”, then the recording artists or their heirs could have the right to terminate the rights we hold. These residual author rights generally survive for five years after the end of the 35-year period from the date of a post-1977 license or assignment, and in the case of a pre-1978 grant in a pre-1978 recording, five years after the end of the 56-year period from the date of creation or January 1, 1978, whichever is later. Any termination of our rights to our music recordings could have a material reduction in our revenue. We may need to raise additional capital to accomplish our objectives of acquiring the digital rights to music recordings, and if we are unable to raise such money as needed our growth would be limited. We intend to use our common stock and cash for the consideration for future acquisitions of digital rights to additional music recordings. If our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value or content owners are unwilling to accept common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of the digital rights to their music recordings or of their businesses or as consideration for licensed rights to their music recordings, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available. Although we currently anticipate that the proceeds from our February 2006 initial public offering of common stock, together with our available funds, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for 2006, we may require additional financing in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our ability to acquire additional rights to music recordings could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Using cash to finance acquisitions could substantially limit our financial flexibility and using debt could result in financial covenants that limit our operations and financial flexibility. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. 15 Table of Contents If the Internet and portable digital music players cease to be the medium accepted by the mass market for digital music, our business could be affected adversely. Our success depends to a substantial extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of online services as a method of purchasing music. The use of the Internet to select and download purchased music is growing rapidly but is still evolving, and it is uncertain whether this market will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. If the use of the Internet to select and purchase music recordings does not gain in popularity and market acceptance, our business could be affected adversely. Much of our revenue is tied to the popularity of portable digital music players like the iPod by Apple Computer and other digital music listening devices. If the market penetration by these devices does not continue, the number of consumers purchasing digital music may decrease or not grow, which could result in a reduction in our revenue. Our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant voting control over us as stockholders. Our officers and directors and their immediate family members, as of March 20, 2006, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock. See our Proxy Statement for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders for the individual beneficial ownership of our common stock held by our directors and officers. These significant stockholders may have interests that are different from yours. As a result of their shareholdings, these individuals will be able to exercise significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; and • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to the Delaware anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on this provision to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Our stock price is subject to fluctuation and could decline. The price at which our common stock has traded since our initial public offering in February 2006 has fluctuated significantly. The price is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our operating results; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; and • conditions and trends in online commerce industries, particularly in the online digital music market. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. 16 Table of Contents In the past, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. This type of litigation, if directed at us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our common stock, including those purchased in our recent initial public offering, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market following the expiration of lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering completed in February 2006 and compliance with Rule 144 hold periods may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options also may be sold in the public market. Such sales could create the perception to the public of difficulties or problems with our business. As a result, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and price that we deem necessary or appropriate. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that you will receive a return on your investment when you sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are in the process of documenting and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, such controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. Section 404 requires a reporting company to, among other things, annually review and disclose its internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate and disclose changes in its internal controls over financial reporting quarterly. We will be required to comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 2007. We are currently performing the systems and process documentation, evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. In the course of our ongoing evaluation, we may identify areas of our internal controls requiring improvement, and plan to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues that might be identified through this review. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our documentation, evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations and may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that the internal controls are or will be effective in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such actions could adversely affect our results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 