Risk Factors An investment in our common shares involves risk. In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services. In particular, our refining margins were significantly lower in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 due to substantial increases in feedstock costs and lower increases in product prices throughout much of 2009. In recent years, the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, and refined products have fluctuated substantially. The NYMEX WTI postings of crude oil for 2009 ranged from $33.98 to $81.37 per barrel. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: • changes in global and local economic conditions; • demand for crude oil and refined products, especially in the U.S., China, and India; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa, and Latin America; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the level of crude oil, feedstocks, and refined products imported into the U.S., which can be impacted by accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather, or other events affecting producers and suppliers; • U.S. government regulations; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; • changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain oil price and production controls; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; • pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market; • product pipeline capacity, including the Longhorn pipeline, as well as Kinder Morgan’s expansion of its East Line, both of which could increase supply in certain of our service areas and therefore reduce our margins; 16 Table of Contents • accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our plants, machinery or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions, and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our service areas. Volatility has had, and may continue to further have, a negative effect on our results of operations to the extent that the margin between refined product prices and feedstock prices narrows further, as was the case throughout much of 2009. The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil and refined product inventories. Crude oil and refined products are commodities. As a result, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Because our inventory of crude oil and refined product is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the “last-in, first-out,” or LIFO, inventory valuation methodology, if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold. The estimated fair value of the Giant inventory recorded as a result of the acquisition of Giant increased the likelihood of a lower of cost or market, or LCM, inventory write-down to occur in the future. As a result of increasing market prices of crude oil, blendstocks, and refined products, we had a net change in the lower of cost or market reserve from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 of $61.0 million to value our Yorktown inventories to net realizable market values, which decreased cost of products sold and increased refinery gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, due to the volatility in the price of crude oil and other blendstocks, we experienced fluctuations in our LIFO reserves between 2008 and 2009. We also experienced LIFO liquidations based on permanent decreased levels in our inventories. These LIFO liquidations resulted in a decrease in cost of products sold of $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition, the volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries affects operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future performance. In light of our acquisition of Giant on May 31, 2007, our financial statements only reflect the impact of that acquisition since June 1, 2007, and therefore make comparisons with prior periods difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance as owners of Giant makes it difficult for shareholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability. If the price of crude oil increases significantly or our credit profile changes, or if we are unable to access our revolving credit facility for borrowings or for letters of credit, our liquidity and our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on borrowings and letters of credit under our $800.0 million revolving credit facility to purchase crude oil for our refineries. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require additional support such as letters of credit. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our creditors of more burdensome payment terms on us, or our inability to access our revolving credit facility, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers, which could hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. In addition, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility, or sufficient cash on hand, to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. A failure to operate our refineries at planned rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a continued economic downturn and by instability and volatility in the financial markets. The recent turmoil in the global financial markets and the scarcity of credit has led to lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally in the United States and abroad. The economic downturn has materially adversely affected and may continue to affect the liquidity, businesses, and/or financial conditions of our customers, which has resulted, and may continue to result, not only in decreased demand for our products, but also increased delinquencies in our accounts receivable. Furthermore, the financial crisis could have a negative impact on our cost of borrowing and on our ability to obtain future borrowings or letters of credit under our revolving credit facility. The disruptions in the financial markets could also lead to a reduction in available trade credit due to counterparties’ liquidity concerns. If we continue to experience a decrease in demand for our products or an increase in delinquencies in our accounts receivable, or if we are unable to obtain borrowings or letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was $1,116.7 million and our stockholders’ equity was $688.5 million. We currently have an $800.0 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009, the gross availability under the 2007 Revolving Credit Agreement was $658.3 million pursuant to the borrowing base. As of December 31, 2009, we had net availability under the 2007 Revolving Credit Agreement of $305.6 million due to $302.7 million in letters of credit outstanding and $50.0 million in direct borrowings. On March 5, 2010, the gross availability under the 2007 Revolving Credit Agreement was $587.4 million pursuant to the borrowing base. On March 5, 2010, we had net availability under the 2007 Revolving Credit Agreement of $185.4 million due to $262.0 million in letters of credit outstanding and $140.0 million in direct borrowings. Our level of debt may have important consequences to you. Among other things, it may: • limit our ability to use our cash flow, or obtain additional financing, for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to pay dividends; • require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and, to the extent of our outstanding debt under our floating rate debt facilities, the impact of increases in interest rates. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flows or that we will be able to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from our operating activities will continue to be primarily dependent on producing or purchasing, and selling, sufficient quantities of refined products at margins sufficient to cover fixed and variable expenses. Our refining margins deteriorated in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 due to substantial increases in feedstock costs and lower increases in gasoline prices. As a result, our earnings and cash flow were negatively impacted. If our margins continue to deteriorate significantly, or if our earnings and cash flow continue to suffer for any other reason, we may be unable to comply with the financial covenants set forth in our credit facilities. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit, which would hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. To the extent that we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to borrow or issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, or obtain additional financing through equity or debt financings. If additional funds are obtained by issuing equity securities or if holders of our outstanding 5.75% Convertible Senior Notes convert those notes into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders could be diluted. We cannot assure you that we 18 Table of Contents will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, or obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our ability to incur additional debt will be restricted under the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility, term loan facility, and Senior Secured Notes. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Working Capital” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Indebtedness.” Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. Our revolving credit facility, term loan facility, and the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes contain covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to negative covenants that restrict our activities, including restrictions on: • creating liens; • engaging in mergers, consolidations, and sales of assets; • incurring additional indebtedness; • providing guarantees; • engaging in different businesses; • making investments; • making certain dividend, debt, and other restricted payments; • engaging in certain transactions with affiliates; and • entering into certain contractual obligations. We are also subject to financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy other financial tests, including a minimum earnings before interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation, and amortization, or EBITDA, covenant, minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined therein), maximum consolidated leverage ratio (as defined therein). Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend upon our ability to generate results similar to those in prior periods, which will depend on factors outside our control, including refined product margins, which worsened in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 2007. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in these facilities or an event of default occurs under these facilities, the maturity of the loans, our Senior Secured Notes and our Convertible Senior Notes could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. If the loans, our Senior Secured Notes, or our Convertible Senior Notes are accelerated and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all amounts due, we could be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, or to obtain additional financing through equity or debt financings. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot borrow or issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, we would need to seek additional financing, if available, or curtail our operations. The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs, or liabilities. Any significant interruptions in the operations of any of our refineries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products, and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • natural disasters; • fires; 19 Table of Contents • explosions; • pipeline ruptures and spills; • third-party interference; • disruption of natural gas deliveries; • disruptions of electricity deliveries; • disruption of sulfur gas processing by E.I. du Pont de Nemours at our El Paso refinery; and • mechanical failure of equipment at our refineries or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims, and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. Furthermore, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Our refineries consist of many processing units, several of which have been in operation for a long time. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs, or our planned turnarounds may last longer than anticipated. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues and increase our costs during the period of time that our units are not operating. Our refining activities are conducted at our El Paso refinery in Texas, the Yorktown refinery in Virginia, and our Gallup refinery in New Mexico. The refineries constitute a significant portion of our operating assets, and our refineries supply a significant portion of our fuel to our retail operations. Prior to our acquisition of Giant in 2007, there was one fire incident at the Yorktown refinery and two fire incidents at the Gallup refinery in late 2006. Because of the significance to us of our refining operations, the occurrence of any of the events described above could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products, and any sustained disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not realize the benefits of increased heavy crude oil capacity at our Yorktown refinery. Heavy crude oil has historically been less expensive to acquire than light crude oil; however recent price differentials between heavy and light crude oil have narrowed. In particular, the heavy crude oil price differential at our Yorktown refinery has been significantly reduced. Such reduced heavy crude oil price differentials could make our Yorktown refinery uneconomical to operate. We may not have sufficient crude oil to be able to run our Gallup refinery at the historical rates of our Four Corners refineries. Our Gallup refinery purchases crude oil from the local regions around the refinery. To the extent sufficient local crude oil cannot be purchased and we are unable to transport sufficient crude oil on our 16-inch pipeline to supply the Gallup refinery, we may not have sufficient crude oil to run the Gallup refinery at the historical levels of our Four Corners refineries, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could experience business interruptions caused by pipeline shutdown. Our El Paso refinery, which is our largest refinery, is dependent on a 450-mile pipeline owned by Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, LP, or Kinder Morgan, for the delivery of all of its crude oil. Because our crude oil refining capacity at the El Paso refinery is approaching the delivery capacity of the pipeline, our ability to offset lost production due to disruptions in supply with increased future production is limited due to this crude oil supply constraint. In addition, we will be unable to take advantage of further expansion of the El Paso refinery’s production without securing additional crude oil supplies or pipeline expansion. We also deliver a substantial percentage of the refined products produced at the El Paso refinery through three principal product pipelines. Any extended, non-excused downtime of our El Paso refinery could cause us to lose line space on these refined products pipelines if we 20 Table of Contents cannot otherwise utilize our pipeline allocations. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action, or any other events beyond our control. A prolonged inability to receive crude oil or transport refined products on pipelines that we currently utilize could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also have a pipeline system that delivers crude oil and natural gas liquids to our Gallup refinery. The Gallup refinery is dependent on the crude oil pipeline system for the delivery of the crude oil necessary to run the refinery. If the operation of the pipeline system is disrupted, we may not receive the crude oil necessary to run the refinery. A prolonged inability to transport crude oil on the pipeline system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain rights-of-way necessary for our crude oil pipeline system to deliver crude oil to our Gallup refinery must be renewed periodically. One of these rights-of-way for the 16-inch pipeline owned by one of our subsidiaries has expired but it is in the process of being renewed. Other of these rights-of-way expires at the end of March 2010. We have been and currently are in negotiations with the Navajo Nation regarding the renewal of certain of these rights-of-way necessary to deliver crude oil to our Gallup refinery and anticipate completing these negotiations before the end of March 2010. A prolonged inability to use these pipelines to transport crude oil to our Gallup refinery could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Severe weather, including hurricanes, could interrupt the supply of some of our feedstocks. Crude oil supplies for the El Paso refinery come from the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico and therefore are generally not subject to interruption from severe weather, such as hurricanes. We, however, obtain certain of our feedstocks for the El Paso refinery, such as alkylate, and some refined products we purchase for resale, by pipeline from Gulf Coast refineries. Alkylate is used to produce a portion of our Phoenix Clean Burning Gasoline, or CBG, and other refined products. If our supply of feedstocks is interrupted for the El Paso refinery, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our Yorktown refinery is located on land that lies along the York River in York County, Virginia. It is situated adjacent to its own deep-water port on the York River. All of the crude oil used by the refinery is delivered by crude oil tankers and most of the finished products sold by the refinery are shipped out by barge, with the remaining amount shipped out by truck or rail. As a result of its location, the refinery is subject to damage or interruption of operations and deliveries of both crude oil and finished products from hurricanes or other severe weather. A prolonged interruption of operations or deliveries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the areas in which we sell our refined products could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations, and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to compete on the basis of price, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage, and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. Competitors that have their own production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from production, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial, and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents The Longhorn refined products pipeline runs approximately 700 miles from the Houston area of the Gulf Coast to El Paso and has an estimated maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. This pipeline provides Gulf Coast refiners and other shippers with improved access to West Texas and New Mexico. During the latter part of 2009, the Longhorn pipeline was purchased by Magellan. Magellan has indicated that it intends to connect the Longhorn pipeline system to its existing terminals in Houston and to complete construction of additional storage in El Paso. Any additional supply provided by this pipeline or by the Kinder Morgan pipeline expansion could lower prices and increase price volatility in areas that we serve and could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors’ plans, as well as plans of our own, for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in the Southwest region. In addition, we anticipate that lower quality crude oils, which are typically less expensive to acquire, can and will be processed by our competitors as a result of refinery improvements. These developments could result in increased competition in the areas in which we operate. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental, health, and safety regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, characteristics, composition of gasoline, diesel, and other fuels and the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to administrative, civil, and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other entities and individuals. A failure to comply, and any related proceedings, including lawsuits, could result in significant costs and liabilities, penalties, judgments against us, or governmental or court orders that could alter, limit, or stop our operations. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources, new state regulations relating to fuel quality, and the risk of global climate change, as well as new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement, or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. We are not able to predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations or changes in the ways that such laws or regulations are administered, interpreted, or enforced. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any or all of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The EPA has issued rules pursuant to the Clean Air Act that require refiners to reduce the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuel and reduce the benzene content of gasoline by various specified dates. We are incurring substantial costs to comply with the EPA’s low sulfur and low benzene rules. Our strategy for complying with low benzene gasoline regulations at our Yorktown refinery and with ultra low sulfur diesel regulations at our Gallup refinery relies partially on purchasing credits. If credits are not available or are too costly, we may not be able to meet EPA’s deadlines using a credit strategy. Failure to meet the EPA’s clean fuels mandates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Pursuant to the Energy Acts of 2005 and 2007, the EPA has issued Renewable Fuels Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced at our refineries. Currently, the standards are enforced at our El Paso refinery only. Unless the EPA grants an extension, our Yorktown and Gallup refineries become subject to RFS in 2011. Annually, the EPA establishes a volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries must blend into their finished petroleum fuels. The obligated volume increases over time until 2022. Blending renewable fuels into their finished petroleum fuels will displace an increasing volume of a refinery’s product pool. Failure to meet the EPA’s RFS mandates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Long-lived and intangible assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. Under FASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, or FASC 360, and FASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, or FASC 350, long-lived assets and both amortizable intangible assets and intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. We evaluate the remaining useful lives of our intangible assets with indefinite lives each reporting period. If events or circumstances no longer support an indefinite life, the intangible asset is tested for impairment and prospectively amortized over its remaining useful life. Long-lived and amortizable intangible assets are not recoverable if their carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from their use and eventual disposition. If a long-lived or amortizable intangible asset is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount by which its carrying amount exceeds its fair value, with fair value determined under FASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, or FASC 820, generally based on discounted estimated net cash flows. In order to test long-lived and amortizable intangible assets for recoverability, management must make estimates of projected cash flows related to the asset being evaluated, which include, but are not limited to, assumptions about the use or disposition of the asset, its estimated remaining life, and future expenditures necessary to maintain its existing service potential. In order to determine fair value, management must make certain estimates and assumptions including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected volumes, margins, cash flows, investment rates, interest/equity rates, and growth rates, that could significantly impact the fair value of the asset being tested for impairment. The economic slowdown that began in 2008 and continued through 2009 has created downward pressure on demand for refined products; thereby putting significant pressure on refined product margins. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, price differentials between sour and heavy crude oil and light sweet crude oil narrowed. Narrow heavy sour crude oil differentials can significantly impact the results of operations for our Yorktown refinery. Such narrow crude oil differentials could make our Yorktown refinery uneconomical to operate. Due to these economic conditions, at December 31, 2009, we performed an impairment analysis of our Yorktown long-lived and intangible assets. We incorporated current industry analysts’ margin forecasts into our estimated cash flows. Based on our analysis, we determined that the carrying amount of our significant Yorktown operating assets continued to be recoverable as of December 31, 2009. We continue to evaluate strategic alternatives for this refinery, which may include the potential sale of the refinery. Due to the effect of the current unfavorable economic conditions on the refining industry, and our expectations of a continuation of such conditions for the near term, we will continue to monitor both our operating assets and our capital projects for potential asset impairments or project write-offs until conditions improve. Our current evaluations are focused on our Yorktown refinery long-lived assets, which had a carrying value of $725.9 million as of December 31, 2009. Changes in market conditions, as well as changes in assumptions used to test for recoverability and to determine fair value, could result in significant impairment charges or project write-offs in the future, thus negatively affecting our earnings. See “Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Major Influences on Results of Operations — Long-lived Asset Impairment Loss.” We have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with certain environmental standards by the current EPA-mandated deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term and long-term capital needs, including those for capital expenditures that we will make to comply with various regulatory requirements. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily crude oil purchase requirements, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support ongoing capital expenditures and other regulatory compliance. 23 Table of Contents Our operations involve environmental risks that could give rise to material liabilities. Our operations, and those of prior owners or operators of our properties, have previously resulted in spills, discharges, or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment, and such spills, discharges, or releases could also happen in the future. Past or future spills related to any of our operations, including our refineries, product terminals, or transportation of refined products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and clean-up responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state, or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, for contamination of properties that we currently own or operate and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or by-products for use, treatment, storage or disposal, without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with law at the time. Our liability could also increase if other responsible parties, including prior owners or operators of our facilities, fail to complete their clean-up obligations. Based on current information, we do not believe these liabilities are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In the event that new spills, discharges, or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances occur or are discovered or there are other changes in facts or in the level of contributions being made by other responsible parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our refineries or otherwise related to our current or former operations. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage, or for clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our refineries to adjacent and other nearby properties. We could incur significant costs to comply with greenhouse gas emissions regulation or legislation. Climate change legislation is being considered by Congress, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has proposed regulatory changes with respect to greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act that could separately lead to new requirements. Certain proposed federal “cap-and-trade” legislation would impose a nationwide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and require major sources that emit greenhouse gases to buy emission credits to meet that cap. In addition, refiners would be obligated to purchase emission credits associated with the transportation fuels (gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel) sold and consumed in the United States. In the event such a law is passed, we could be required to purchase emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our own operations as well as from the fuels we sell. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final form of a cap-and-trade bill (or whether such a bill will be passed by Congress), any new federal restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions — including a cap-and-trade program or those resulting from EPA regulation — could result in material increased compliance costs (including increased capital expenditures for compliance), additional operating restrictions for our business, and an increase in the cost of the products we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We are involved in a number of methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, lawsuits. Lawsuits have been filed in numerous states alleging that MTBE, a high octane blendstock used by many refiners in producing specially formulated gasoline, has contaminated water supplies. MTBE contamination primarily results from leaking underground or aboveground storage tanks. The suits allege MTBE contamination of water supplies owned and operated by the plaintiffs, who are generally water providers or governmental entities. The plaintiffs assert that numerous refiners, distributors, or sellers of MTBE and/or gasoline containing MTBE are responsible for the contamination. The plaintiffs also claim that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for compensatory and punitive damages, costs, and interest. Joint and several liability means that each defendant may be liable for all of the damages even though that party was responsible for only a small part of the damages. As a result of the acquisition of Giant, certain of our subsidiaries were defendants in approximately 40 of these MTBE lawsuits pending in Virginia, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Florida, and New Mexico. We and our subsidiaries have reached settlement agreements regarding 24 Table of Contents most of these lawsuits, including the New Mexico suit. After these settlement agreements, there are currently a total of twelve lawsuits pending in New York, New Hampshire, and New Jersey. The settlements referenced above were not material individually or in the aggregate to our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We were also named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed by the State of New Jersey related to MTBE. We never did business in New Jersey and never sold any products in that state or that could have reached that state. We have been dismissed from this lawsuit. Owners of a small hotel in Aztec, New Mexico, filed a lawsuit in San Juan County, New Mexico alleging migration of underground gasoline onto their property from underground storage tanks located on a convenience store property across the street, which is owned by one of our subsidiaries. Plaintiffs claim a component of the gasoline, MTBE, has contaminated their property. We dispute these claims and are defending ourselves accordingly. We intend to vigorously defend these MTBE lawsuits. Because potentially applicable factual and legal issues have not been resolved, we have yet to determine if a liability is probable and we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of any loss associated with these matters. Accordingly, we have not recorded a liability for these lawsuits. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal, or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by contractual restrictions and cash generated by operations. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Consequently, we will rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to fund any dividends. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and our ability to receive distributions from those entities are subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loan facility, and in the indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes, including minimum interest coverage ratio, minimum EBITDA requirement, minimum net income requirements, and maximum leverage ratio. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, our payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flows. Our board of directors will review our dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and we cannot assure you of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs, or liabilities that we may experience. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs, or liabilities. Due to the fires experienced at the Giant refineries in 2005 and 2006, the cost of insurance coverage in 2010 for the Yorktown and Gallup refineries will continue to be higher than the cost of insurance for the El Paso refinery. In addition to the higher costs, the deductibles for such coverage are higher and the waiting periods for business interruption coverage are longer. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. In addition, if we experience any more insurable events, our annual premiums could increase further or insurance may not be available at all. The occurrence of an event that is not fully 25 Table of Contents covered by insurance or the loss of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, including our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Assistant Secretary, President-Refining and Marketing, Senior Vice President-Legal, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Accounting Officer, and Senior Vice President-Treasurer. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers, and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. A substantial portion of our refining workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of March 5, 2010, we employed approximately 3,300 people, approximately 525 of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreement at the Yorktown refinery was successfully renegotiated during 2009 and now has an expiration date of March 2012. In addition, in 2008 we successfully negotiated collective bargaining agreements covering employees at the Gallup and the Bloomfield refineries that expire in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Although the collective bargaining agreement remains in force, the covered employees at the Bloomfield refinery were terminated in connection with the indefinite suspension of refining activities at the Bloomfield refinery during November 2009. We also successfully negotiated a new collective bargaining agreement covering employees at the El Paso refinery, renewing the collective bargaining agreement that expired in April 2009. The collective bargaining agreement covering the El Paso refinery employees expires in April 2012. While all of our collective bargaining agreements contain “no strike” provisions, those provisions are not effective in the event an agreement expires. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, threats of war, or actual war may negatively affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Energy-related assets (which could include refineries and terminals such as ours or pipelines such as the ones on which we depend for our crude oil supply and refined product distribution) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets. A direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any terrorist attack could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and marketing operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. While we currently maintain some insurance that provides coverage against terrorist attacks, such insurance has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. As a result, insurance providers may not continue to offer this coverage to us on terms that we consider affordable, or at all. Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months. In addition, ethanol is added to the gasoline in our service areas during the winter months, thereby increasing the supply of 26 Table of Contents gasoline. This combination of decreased demand and increased supply during the winter months can lower gasoline prices. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. The effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by increased demand during the winter months for diesel fuel in the Southwest and heating oil in the Northeast. Our controlling stockholders may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Mr. Paul Foster, our Executive Chairman, and Messrs. Jeff Stevens (our Chief Executive Officer and President and a current director), Ralph Schmidt (our former Chief Operating Officer and a current director) and Scott Weaver (our Vice President, Assistant Secretary and a current director) own approximately 41% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Foster and the other members of this group will strongly influence or effectively control the election of our directors, our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Foster and the other members of this group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 