Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making any investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to our Company We have substantial indebtedness and may be unable to service our debt. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, limit our available cash and our access to additional capital and prevent us from growing our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness (consisting of the aggregate amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, senior secured notes, senior subordinated notes and notes payable) was approximately, $349.9 million, $106.5 million of which was first-priority secured debt and effectively senior to our senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes. As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any outstanding capital lease obligations. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes were effectively subordinated to our obligations under $93.7 million of first-priority secured manufacturer floor plan financings to the extent of the value of their collateral, $0.5 million in notes payable and $8.3 million in standby letters of credit. In February 2006, we used a portion of the proceeds from our initial public offering to repay approximately $96.6 million of our outstanding principal indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility. Accrued interest in the amount of $0.2 million was subsequently paid in March 2006. At March 22, 2006, we had no borrowings under the senior secured credit facility and we had $156.7 million of borrowing availability, net of issued letters of credit. In addition, subject to restrictions in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes, we may incur additional first-priority borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to debt service and may not be available for other purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · limiting our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, and may impede our ability to secure favorable lease terms; · making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness. 13 To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. An inability to service our indebtedness could lead to a default under our senior secured credit facility and our indentures, which may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we needed approximately $349.9 million to service our indebtedness (not including amounts payable under our operating leases for rental equipment). Our ability to pay interest and principal in the future on our indebtedness (including obligations under the senior secured credit facility, the senior secured notes, the senior subordinated notes and notes payable) and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and the availability of refinancing indebtedness, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations and anticipated cost savings and operating improvements, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowing under the senior secured credit facility, as amended, will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future cash flow may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. These actions may not be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, and these actions may not enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. In addition, our existing or future debt agreements, including the indentures governing the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes and the senior secured credit facility may contain restrictive covenants prohibiting us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. See Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes impose certain restrictions. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, resulting in an acceleration of indebtedness, which may affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, including the senior secured credit facility, and the indentures governing our senior secured notes and our senior subordinated notes, may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests, including interest coverage and leverage ratios and maximum capital expenditures, which may require that we take action to reduce debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. In addition, the senior secured credit facility and the senior secured notes and senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · dispose of assets; · incur guarantee obligations; · repay indebtedness or amend debt instruments; · pay dividends; · create liens on assets; · make investments; · make acquisitions; 14 · engage in mergers or consolidations; or · engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates and otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Such an acceleration would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. A failure to comply with the restrictions in the senior secured notes indenture or the senior secured subordinated notes indenture could result in an event of default under those indentures. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in the senior secured credit facility, the indentures or other indebtedness or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or make any accelerated payments, including those under the senior secured notes and the senior subordinated notes, and the lenders or noteholders could seek to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such indebtedness. Also, we may not be able to obtain new financing. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we cannot guarantee that the new financing will be on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us. If we default on our indebtedness, our business financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Concentration of ownership among our existing executives, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. After giving effect to the completion of the Reorganization Transactions and our initial public offering, Bruckman, Rosser, Sherill & Co. II, L.P. and Bruckman, Rosser, Sherill & Co., L.P. (collectively “BRS”) and their affiliates beneficially own securities representing approximately 41.2% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock and our executives, directors and principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, securities representing approximately 65.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate actions. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. We cannot assure you that the interests of these stockholders will not conflict with your interests. In addition, our interests may conflict with these stockholders in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: · the timing and manner of any sales or distributions by these stockholders of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; · business opportunities that may be presented to BRS and its affiliates and to our directors associated with BRS; and · competition between BRS and its affiliates and us within the same lines of business. For additional information regarding the share ownership of, and or relationships with, certain stockholders, you should read the information under Item 12—Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management, and Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. 15 Risks Related to our Business Our business could be hurt by a decline in construction and industrial activities, which could decrease the demand for equipment or depress rental rates and sales prices, resulting in a decline in our revenues and profitability. Our equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. Consequently, a downturn in construction or industrial activity may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or depress rental rates and the sales prices for the equipment we sell. We have identified below certain of the factors which may cause such a downturn, either temporarily or long-term: · a reduction in spending levels by customers; · a slow-down of the economy over the long-term; · adverse weather conditions which may affect a particular region; · an increase in interest rates; or · terrorism or hostilities involving the United States. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate, which could result in a decline in our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business. Our revenue and operating results have historically varied from quarter to quarter. Periods of decline could result in an overall decline in profitability and make it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness and grow our business. We expect our quarterly results to continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including: · seasonal sales and rental patterns of our construction customers, with sales and rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; · severe weather and seismic conditions temporarily affecting the regions where we operate; · cyclical nature of our customers’ business, particularly our construction customers; · changes in corporate spending for plants and facilities or changes in government spending for infrastructure products; · general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; · the effectiveness of integrating acquired businesses and new locations; · timing of acquisitions and new location openings and related costs. In addition, we incur various costs when integrating newly acquired businesses or opening locations, and the profitability of a new location is generally expected to be lower in the initial months of operation. We purchase a significant amount of our equipment from a limited number of manufacturers. Termination of one or more of our relationships with any of those manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may be unable to obtain adequate or timely rental and sales equipment. Currently, we purchase most of our rental and sales equipment from leading, nationally-known original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). For the year ended December 31, 2005, we purchased approximately 83% of our rental and sales equipment from seven manufacturers. Although we believe that we have alternative sources of supply for the rental and sales equipment we purchase in each of our principal product categories, termination of one or more of our relationships with any of these major suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation if we were unable to obtain adequate or timely rental and sales equipment. 16 Our new equipment suppliers may appoint additional distributors, sell directly or unilaterally terminate our distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business due to a reduction of, or inability to increase, our revenues. We are a distributor of new equipment and parts supplied by leading, nationally-known OEMs. Under our distribution agreements with these OEMs, manufacturers retain the right to appoint additional dealers and sell directly to national accounts and government agencies. In most instances, they may unilaterally terminate their distribution agreements with us at any time without cause. We have both written and oral distribution agreements with our new equipment suppliers. Under our oral agreements with the OEMs, we operate under our developed course of dealing with the supplier and are subject to the applicable state law regarding such relationship. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a reduction of, or an inability to increase, revenues. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: · the market price for new equipment of a like kind; · wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age; · the time of year that it is sold (prices are generally higher during the construction season); · worldwide and domestic demands for used equipment; and · general economic conditions. Although for the year ended December 31, 2005 we sold used equipment from our rental fleet at an average selling price of approximately 136.6% of book value, we cannot assure you that used equipment selling prices will not decline. Any significant decline in the selling prices for used equipment could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We incur maintenance and repair costs associated with our rental fleet equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business in the event these costs are greater than anticipated. Determining the optimal age for our rental fleet equipment is subjective and requires considerable estimates by management. We have made estimates regarding the relationship between the age of our rental fleet equipment, and the maintenance and repair costs, and the market value of used equipment. Our future operating results could be adversely affected because our maintenance and repairs costs may be higher than estimated and market values of used equipment may fluctuate. We may be unsuccessful in integrating our prior acquisitions and our future acquisitions, which may decrease our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to integrate and consolidate any future acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of all of the capital stock of Eagle High Reach Equipment, Inc. and all of the equity interests of its subsidiary, Eagle High Reach Equipment, LLC (together, “Eagle”), and we may be unable to operate profitably as a consolidated company. For a discussion of the Eagle acquisition, see Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments. Any significant diversion of management’s attention or any major difficulties encountered in the integration of the businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation which could decrease our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business. 17 We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impede our revenues and profitability. An important element of our growth strategy is to continue to seek additional businesses to acquire in order to add new customers within our existing markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, competition for attractive acquisition candidates may limit the number of acquisition candidates or increase the overall costs of making acquisitions. The difficulties we may face in identifying or completing acquisitions could impede our revenues and profitability. We may experience integration and consolidation risks associated with our growth strategy. Future acquisitions may also result in significant transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets and we may be unable to profitably operate our consolidated company. We periodically engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and start-up facilities. The success of our growth strategy depends, in part, on selecting strategic acquisition candidates at attractive prices and identifying strategic start-up locations. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and lead to higher acquisition costs. We may not have the financial resources necessary to consummate any acquisitions or to successfully open any new facilities in the future or the ability to obtain the necessary funds on satisfactory terms. Any future acquisitions or the opening of new facilities may result in significant transaction expenses and risks associated with entering new markets in addition to the integration and consolidation risks described above. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to integrate any such future acquisitions or to successfully operate new locations and we may be unable to profitably operate our consolidated company. We may not be able to successfully integrate the recently acquired Eagle business or achieve expected results. The Eagle acquisition expands our presence into California where we currently do not operate. We may experience difficulties in successfully operating in this new market and in integrating Eagle’s business with our own, which could increase our costs or adversely impact our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on key personnel. A loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could result in a decline in our revenues and profitability. We are dependent on the experience and continued services of our senior management team, including Mr. Engquist, with whom we have an employment agreement which terminates December 31, 2006. Mr. Engquist has approximately 31 years of industry experience and has served as an officer of Head and Engquist since 1990, a director of Gulf Wide since 1995, an officer and director of H&E LLC since its formation in June 2002 and an officer and director of H&E Equipment Services, Inc. since its inception. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management team, particularly Mr. Engquist, and are unable to find a suitable replacement, we may not have the depth of senior management resources required to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. Our business could be hurt if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, resulting in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. The cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our senior secured credit facility, may not be sufficient to fund our capital requirements. As a result, we may require additional financing to obtain capital for, among other purposes, purchasing equipment, completing acquisitions, establishing new locations and refinancing existing indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness that we incur will make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, if at 18 all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing in the future, our business could be adversely affected by reducing our ability to increase revenues and profitability. We are subject to competition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing our ability to increase or maintain revenues or profitability. The equipment rental and retail distribution industries are highly competitive and the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented. Many of the markets in which we operate are served by numerous competitors, ranging from national and multi-regional equipment rental companies to small, independent businesses with a limited number of locations. We generally compete on the basis of, among other things: (1) quality and breadth of service; (2) expertise; (3) reliability; and (4) price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to reduce rental rates or sales prices. If competitive pressures were to cause us to reduce our rates, our operating margins may be adversely impacted. If we were to maintain rates in the face of reductions by our competitors, our market share could decline. We may encounter increased competition from existing competitors or new market entrants in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our information technology systems, including our customer relationship management system, could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruption in any of these systems, including our customer relationship management system, or the failure of any of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. The nature of our business exposes us to various liability claims, which may exceed the level of our insurance and thereby not fully protect us. Our business exposes us to claims for personal injury, death or property damage resulting from the use of the equipment we rent or sell and from injuries caused in motor vehicle accidents in which our delivery and service personnel are involved. We carry comprehensive insurance, subject to deductibles, at levels we believe are sufficient to cover existing and future claims. However, we may be exposed to multiple claims that do not exceed our deductibles, and, as a result, we could incur significant out-of-pocket costs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of such insurance policies may increase significantly as a result of general rate increases for the type of insurance we carry as well as our historical experience and experience in our industry. Although we have not experienced any material losses that were not covered by insurance, our existing or future claims may exceed the level of our insurance, and such insurance may not continue to be available on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are required to pay significantly higher premiums for insurance, are not able to maintain insurance coverage at affordable rates or if we must pay amounts in excess of claims covered by our insurance, we could experience higher costs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements, which could force us to increase significant capital and other operational costs and may subject us to unanticipated liabilities. Our operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials. As a result, we are subject to the requirements of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. We may not be at all times in complete compliance with all such requirements. We are subject to potentially 19 significant civil or criminal fines or penalties if we fail to comply with any of these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. However, the requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, and could become more stringent in the future. It is possible that these requirements will change or that liabilities will arise in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Environmental laws also impose obligations and liability for the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substance spills or releases. These liabilities can be imposed on the parties generating or disposing of such substances or operator of affected property, often without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances. Accordingly, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if a contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property. Given the nature of our operations (which involve the use of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances for fueling and maintaining our equipment and vehicles), there can be no assurance that prior site assessments or investigations have identified all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination. Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities which may be material. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in the southeastern United States are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In late summer 2005, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita struck the Gulf Coast region of the United States and caused extensive and catastrophic physical damage to those areas. While Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita did not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations, future hurricanes could affect our operations or the economies in those market areas and result in damage to certain of our facilities and the equipment located at such facilities, or equipment on rent with customers in those areas. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes. We will incur increased costs as a result of having publicly traded common stock. Although H&E LLC previously filed reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), we will incur significant legal, accounting, reporting, insurance and other expenses as a result of having publicly traded common stock that we did not previously incur. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq National Market. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage to incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, we may experience more difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of these requirements or the timing of such costs. 20 The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2004 to properly record and report the correct accounting treatment of deferred taxes from the Gulf Wide transaction. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. As part of their evaluation, they reviewed the circumstances surrounding the delay in filing their annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003. We delayed filing our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005 pending completion by our accountants, BDO Seidman LLP, of the re-audits of our 2002 and 2003 financial statements that were audited by our prior accountants. During these re-audits, we discovered that we incorrectly recognized the deferred tax components related to the tax basis of carryover goodwill acquired in our combination with ICM Equipment Company in 2002. After internal review and consultation with our Audit Committee, we determined to restate our 2002 and 2003 financial statements to reflect the proper accounting treatment of deferred income taxes. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2004 to properly record and report the correct accounting treatment of deferred taxes from our 2002 transaction. However, after discovery of this issue, we revisited and reassessed, in consultation with our accountants and our tax manager (who joined us in 2003), the tax treatment, including deferred tax components, for the 2002 transaction to ensure that there were no additional corrections necessary in this regard. To the extent we engage in acquisition transactions in the future, our disclosure controls and procedures now include the involvement of our tax manager and other tax professionals, as necessary, in the appropriate tax analysis and related financial disclosure. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our current disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that material information required to be included in our periodic SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as “Section 404”. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions of the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in 21 the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur such costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our share price. We have approximately 38,192,095 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market following our initial public offering, or the perception that such sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. All the shares sold in the initial public offering are freely tradable. Substantially all of the remaining shares of common stock may be available for resale in the public market, subject to the restrictions on sale or transfer of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and pursuant to the 180-day lockup period beginning on January 30, 2006 and as further described in Shares Eligible for Future Sale contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended. Certain of our existing stockholders are parties to agreements that provide for registration rights that are described in Related Party Transactions contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended. Registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. As restrictions on resale end or upon registration of any of these shares for resale, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 