Risk Factors The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. In recent years, the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products have fluctuated substantially. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: • changes in global and local economic conditions; • demand for crude oil and refined products, especially in the U.S., China and India; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the level of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products imported into the U.S., which can be impacted by accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events affecting producers and suppliers; • U.S. government regulations; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; • changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to oxygenates and sulfur content; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain oil price and production controls; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; • pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market; • product pipeline capacity, including the Longhorn pipeline, as well as Kinder Morgan’s planned expansion of its East Line, both of which could increase supply in our service areas and therefore reduce our margins; • accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our plants, machinery or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our service areas. Future volatility may have a negative effect on our results of operations to the extent that the margin between refined product prices and feedstock prices narrows. The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil and refined product inventories. Crude oil and refined products are commodities; therefore, we have no control over the changing 14 Table of Contents market value of these inventories. Because our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the “last-in, first-out”, or LIFO, inventory valuation methodology, if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold. In addition, the volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refinery affects operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our results of operations. We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone company, and our previous financial statements may not be indicative of future performance. Fiscal year 2004 was the first full year in which we owned and operated our integrated refinery. In light of our acquisition of the North Refinery assets, our financial statements only reflect the impact of that acquisition since that date and therefore make comparisons with prior periods difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance makes it difficult for shareholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability. Furthermore, our brief operating history has resulted in revenue and profitability growth rates that may not be indicative of our future results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock may be volatile. If the price of crude oil increases significantly or our credit profile changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refinery at full capacity. We rely in part on borrowings and letters of credit under our $150 million revolving credit facility, or revolving credit facility, to purchase crude oil for our refinery. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require additional support such as letters of credit. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our creditors of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers, which could hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refinery at full capacity. In addition, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility, or sufficient cash on hand, to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refinery at full capacity. A failure to operate our refinery at full capacity could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. We are particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our operations because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single refinery complex. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • natural disasters; • fires; • explosions; • pipeline ruptures and spills; • third-party interference; • disruption of natural gas deliveries under our interruptible natural gas delivery contract; 15 Table of Contents • disruptions of electricity deliveries; and • mechanical failure of equipment at our refinery or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. Furthermore, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged sections of our refinery and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Our refinery consists of many processing units, several of which have been in operation for a long time. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs, or our planned turnarounds may last longer than anticipated. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues and increase our costs during the period of time that our units are not operating. Furthermore, any extended, non-excused downtime of our refinery could cause us to lose line space on these refined product pipelines if we cannot otherwise utilize our pipeline allocations. Because all of our refining operations are conducted at a single refinery complex, any events described above could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products, and any sustained disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could experience business interruptions caused by pipeline shutdown. Our refinery is dependent on a 450-mile pipeline owned by Kinder Morgan, for the delivery of all of our crude oil. Because our crude oil refining capacity is approaching the delivery capacity of the pipeline, our ability to offset lost production due to disruptions in supply with increased future production is limited due to this crude oil supply constraint. In addition, we will be unable to take advantage of further expansion of our refinery’s production without securing additional crude oil supplies or pipeline expansion. We also deliver a substantial percentage of our refined products through three principal product pipelines. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action or any other events beyond our control. Our prolonged inability to receive crude oil or transport refined products on pipelines that we currently utilize could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, including hurricanes along the Gulf Coast, could interrupt the supply of some of our feedstocks. Our crude oil supplies come from the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico and therefore are generally not subject to interruption from severe weather, such as hurricanes. However, we obtain certain of our feedstocks, such as alkylate, and some refined products we purchase for resale by pipeline from Gulf Coast refineries. We rely on transported feedstocks to produce a portion of our Phoenix CBG and other refined products. In addition, we currently depend on rail shipments of sulfuric acid to and from acid regeneration facilities in Louisiana to conduct our refining operations. These Gulf Coast refineries and acid regeneration facilities are subject to damage or production interruption from hurricanes or other severe weather. If our supply of feedstocks or sulfuric acid is interrupted, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the areas in which we sell our refined products could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to compete on the basis of price, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. In addition, based on the strong fundamentals for the global refining 16 Table of Contents industry, capital investments for refinery expansions and new refineries in international markets have increased, which may result in greater U.S. imports of refined products. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Longhorn refined products pipeline, which was completed in late 2004, runs approximately 700 miles from the Houston area of the Gulf Coast to El Paso and has an estimated maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. This pipeline provides Gulf Coast refiners and other shippers with improved access to West Texas and New Mexico. In addition, Kinder Morgan announced in 2006 that it had completed its expansion of the East Line between El Paso and Tucson to approximately 147,000 bpd, and 99,000 bpd between Tucson and Phoenix. Kinder Morgan also announced further expansion of the East Line would be completed in 2007. This expansion will initially increase the capacity by another 8% and provide the platform for further incremental expansions through horsepower additions to the system. Any additional supply provided by these pipelines could lower prices and increase price volatility in areas that we serve and could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental and health and safety regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to administrative, civil and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other entities and individuals. A failure to comply, and any related proceedings, including lawsuits, could result in significant costs and liabilities, penalties, judgments against us or governmental or court orders that could alter, limit or stop our operations. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. We are not able to predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations or changes in the ways that such laws or regulations are administered, interpreted or enforced. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with certain environmental standards by the current EPA-mandated deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term and long-term capital needs, including those for capital expenditures that we will make to comply with the low sulfur content specifications of the Tier II gasoline standards and on- and off-road diesel laws and regulations. Our short-term working capital 17 Table of Contents needs are primarily crude oil purchase requirements, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. Our operations involve environmental risks that could give rise to material liabilities. Our operations, and those of prior owners or operators of our properties, have previously resulted in spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment, and such spills, discharges or releases could also happen in the future. Past or future spills related to any of our operations, including our refinery, product terminals or transportation of refined products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, for contamination of properties that we currently own or operate and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or by-products for use, treatment, storage or disposal, without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with law at the time. Our liability could also increase if other responsible parties, including prior owners or operators of our facilities, fail to complete their clean-up obligations. Based on current information, we do not believe these liabilities are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, but in the event that new spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances occur or are discovered or there are other changes in facts or in the level of contributions being made by other responsible parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our refinery or otherwise related to our current or former operations. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our refinery to adjacent and other nearby properties. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. Our revolving credit facility contains negative and financial covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to negative covenants that restrict our activities, including restrictions on: • creating liens; • engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; • incurring additional indebtedness; • providing guarantees; 18 Table of Contents • engaging in different businesses; • making investments; • making certain dividend, debt and other restricted payments; • engaging in certain transactions with affiliates; and • entering into certain contractual obligations. We are also subject to financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy other financial tests. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in our revolving credit facility or another event of default occurs under this facility, the maturity of the loans could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. If the loans are accelerated and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all amounts due, we could be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot borrow or issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, we would need to seek additional financing, if available, or curtail our operations. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by contractual restrictions and cash generated by operations. We currently pay a quarterly dividend. However, we are a holding company, and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Consequently, we will rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to fund our dividends. The ability of Western Refining LP, our operating subsidiary, to pay dividends and our ability to receive distributions from that entity are subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, restrictions in our revolving credit facility, including minimum operating cash and net worth requirements. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us which would restrict our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flows. Our board of directors will review our dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and we cannot assure you of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Changes to the current tax laws could result in the imposition of entity level state taxation on our operating subsidiary, which would result in a reduction in our anticipated cash flow. Our operating subsidiary is organized as a partnership, which generally is not subject to entity level state franchise tax in the jurisdictions in which it is organized or operates. However, current laws may change, subjecting our operating subsidiary to entity level state taxation. For example, because of state budget deficits, in May 2006, the State of Texas enacted a new business tax that is imposed on our gross margin to replace the State’s current franchise tax. The new legislation’s effective date is January 1, 2008, which means that our first Texas Margins Tax (“TMT”) return will not become due until May 15, 2008, and will be based on our 2007 operations. Although the new TMT is imposed on an entity’s gross margin rather than on its net income, certain aspects of the tax make it similar to an income tax. Therefore, we will account for the new TMT as an income tax. The impact of the TMT is expected to increase our effective tax rate by up to 1%. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities. Our business interruption insurance coverage does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days and the loss exceeds $1 million. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies. Our business strategies include the implementation of several capital expenditure projects designed to increase the productivity and profitability of our refinery. Many factors beyond our control may prevent or hinder our implementation of some or all of our planned capital expenditure projects or lead to cost overruns, including new or more expensive obligations to comply with environmental regulations, a downturn in refining margins, technical or mechanical problems, lack of available capital and other factors. Failure to successfully implement these profit-enhancing strategies on a timely basis or at all may adversely affect our business prospects and competitive position in the industry. In addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refinery in order to increase earnings and cash flow. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon several factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; • greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; • difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; • incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and • issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President-Refining, Chief Administrative Officer and Assistant Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and Vice President-Legal, Secretary and General Counsel. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. A substantial portion of our refining workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we employed 416 people, 231 of whom were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The collective bargaining agreement expires in April 2009. We may not be able to 20 Table of Contents renegotiate our collective bargaining agreement on satisfactory terms, or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, our existing labor agreement may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks, threats of war or actual war may negatively affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. and the war in Iraq, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Energy-related assets (which could include refineries and terminals such as ours or pipelines such as the ones on which we depend for our crude oil supply and refined product distribution) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets. A direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any terrorist attack could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and marketing operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. While we currently maintain insurance that provides coverage against terrorist attacks, such insurance has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. As a result, insurance providers may not continue to offer this coverage to us on terms that we consider affordable, or at all. Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. In addition, oxygenate is added to the gasoline in our service areas during the winter months, thereby increasing the total supply of gasoline. This combination of decreased demand and increased supply during the winter months can lower prices in the winter months. We also schedule refinery downtime for maintenance and repairs during the winter months. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. In addition to the overall seasonality of our business, unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the areas that use heating oil could have the effect of reducing demand for heating oil, which could result in lower prices for diesel in our service areas and reduce operating margins. Three of our customers each account for more than 10% of our refined product sales, and the complete loss of any of them may have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. In 2006, Chevron, Phoenix Fuel and PMI accounted for 16.7%, 16.7% and 10.5% of our refined product sales, respectively. We have a five-year offtake agreement with Chevron that expires in August 2008 with certain renewal options. Our sales to Phoenix Fuel are pursuant to short-term agreements at prices based on various market indices and our sales to PMI are pursuant to spot sales agreements at prices based on various market indices. If we were to lose all, or substantially all, of these sales and be unable to replace them with other sales at market rates, it would have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability. Competition in the refining and marketing business is intense. To the extent surplus supplies of refined products become available; it would likely enhance the competition for these customers. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 as of December 31, 2007. However, we cannot be certain 21 Table of Contents as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, and our stock price may be adversely affected as a result. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our controlling stockholders may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Mr. Paul Foster, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Messrs. Jeff Stevens, Ralph Schmidt and Scott Weaver, our Executive Vice President, former Chief Operating Officer and current director, and Chief Administrative Officer and Assistant Secretary, respectively, own approximately 59% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Foster and the other members of this management group will be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. So long as this group continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including whether to pursue or consummate potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Foster and the other members of this management group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including: • the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We presently do not have a majority of independent directors on our board and are relying on the exemptions from the NYSE corporate governance requirements set forth in the first bullet point above. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Our pending acquisition of Giant Industries, Inc. may not be successful and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from this acquisition. We may be unable to obtain the governmental and regulatory approvals necessary in order to consummate the Giant acquisition. Even if we do obtain these approvals, and even if the other conditions to the 22 Table of Contents consummation of the Giant acquisition are satisfied, our acquisition of Giant may pose certain risks to our business. Giant has suffered three fires at its refineries in the past year, and as a result, their insurance costs have increased and the terms of their insurance coverage have been adversely affected. Giant has also suffered increased costs associated with several major capital projects. In addition to the risks ordinarily associated with a significant merger acquisition, we will also be exposed to risks arising from these events and other operational risks that may affect Giant differently than they currently affect us. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of the Giant acquisition, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. In particular, the success of the Giant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated refinery efficiencies and cost savings from assuming the control of Giant’s businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be able to achieve these efficiencies and cost savings. Our ability to meet our future debt service obligations related to the Giant acquisition and to reduce our total indebtedness will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our future indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Such refinancing might not be possible and additional financing might not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we will face certain challenges as we work to integrate Giant’s operations into our business. In particular, the Giant acquisition will significantly expand our geographic scope, the types of business in which we are engaged, the number of our employees and the number of refineries we operate, thereby presenting us with significant challenges as we work to manage the substantial increases in scale resulting from the acquisition. We must integrate a large number of systems, both operational and administrative. Delays in this process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. In addition, events outside of our control, including changes in state and federal regulation and laws as well as economic trends, also could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Giant acquisition. We can give no assurance that our acquisition of Giant will perform in accordance with our expectations. Despite our due diligence efforts, we must necessarily base any assessment of Giant on inexact and incomplete information and assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may prove to be incorrect. We can give no assurance that our expectations with regards to integration and synergies will materialize. Our failure to successfully integrate and operate Giant, and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, could adversely affect our operating, performing and financial results. Additionally, on November 22, 2006, Timothy Bisset filed a class action complaint in Arizona state Court against Giant, its directors and us in connection with the merger. Mr. Bisset alleges that Giant and its directors breached their fiduciary duty in voting to amend the definitive merger agreement to provide for, among other things, a lower acquisition price of $77.00 per share. Mr. Bisset also alleges that we aided and abetted this breach of fiduciary duty. He also alleges that he and other public stockholders of Giant’s common stock are entitled to enjoin the proposed amended transaction or, alternatively, to recover damages in the event the transaction is completed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 