Item 1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2 Properties 42 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4 Reserved 42 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 46 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 58 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B Other Information 59 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11 Executive Compensation 66 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Signatures 93 Exhibit 23.1 Exhibit 31.1 Exhibit 31.2 Exhibit 32.1 Exhibit 32.2 i Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements Any statements in this report and the information incorporated herein by reference about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “estimate,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “seek,” “plan,” “expect,” “should,” or “would.” Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements are risks and uncertainties inherent in our business including, without limitation, our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor; our reliance on our co-promotion partner, P&G, and our contract sales force provider, Publicis, for critical aspects of the commercial sales process for Silenor; the performance of P&G and Publicis and their adherence to the terms of their contracts with us; our ability to ensure adequate and continued supply of Silenor to successfully meet anticipated market demand; our ability to achieve market acceptance of Silenor; the ability of our sales management personnel to effectively manage the sales representatives employed by Publicis; our ability to raise sufficient capital to fund our operations, including patent infringement litigation, and the impact of any financing activity on the level of our stock price; our ability to comply with the covenants under our secured loan agreement with Comerica Bank; the potential for an event of default under the secured loan agreement, and the corresponding risk of acceleration of repayment and potential foreclosure on the assets pledged to secure the line of credit; changes in healthcare regulation and reimbursement policies; our ability to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights and defend our patents, including any developments relating to the recent submission of abbreviated new drug applications for generic versions of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets and related patent litigation; the scope, validity and duration of patent protection and other intellectual property rights for Silenor; whether the approved label for Silenor is sufficiently consistent with such patent protection to provide exclusivity for Silenor; the possible introduction of generic competition of Silenor; our ability to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; estimates of the potential markets for Silenor and our ability to compete in these markets; inadequate therapeutic efficacy or unexpected adverse side effects relating to Silenor that could result in recalls or product liability claims; other difficulties or delays in development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of Silenor; the timing and results of post-approval regulatory requirements for Silenor, and the FDA’s agreement with our interpretation of such results; and other risks detailed below in Part I — Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievement. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless required by law. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in August 2003. Our principal executive offices are located at 3570 Carmel Mountain Road, Suite 100, San Diego, CA 92130, and our telephone number is (858) 876-6500. Our website address is www.somaxon.com. The information on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this report. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report and the information incorporated herein by reference to “Somaxon,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We have received a trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, for our corporate name, SOMAXON PHARMACEUTICALS, for use in connection with pharmaceutical preparations for the treatment of neurological, psychiatric and rheumatologic disorders. We have obtained foreign trademark registrations for the trademark SOMAXON PHARMACEUTICALS in Europe, Canada, Japan and Australia. We have received trademark registrations for the trademark SILENOR in the U.S., Europe and Canada. All other trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. Use or display by us of other parties’ trademarks, trade dress or products is not intended to and does not imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of, us by the trademark or trade dress owners. Item 1. Business Overview We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the in-licensing, development and commercialization of proprietary branded products and late-stage product candidates to treat important medical conditions where there is an unmet medical need and/or high-level of patient dissatisfaction, currently in the central nervous system therapeutic area. In March 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approved our New Drug Application, or NDA, for Silenor® 3 mg and 6 mg tablets for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance. Silenor was made commercially available by prescription in the United States in September 2010. 1 Table of Contents Our principal focus is on commercial activities relating to Silenor. We have increased our headcount from five employees as of March 2010 to 40 employees as of February 15, 2011. We commercially launched Silenor in September 2010 with 110 sales representatives provided to us on an exclusive basis under our contract sales agreement with Publicis Touchpoint Solutions, Inc., or Publicis, and an additional 105 sales representatives provided to us under our co-promotion agreement with The Procter & Gamble Distributing Company LLC, or P&G. In February 2011, we engaged Publicis to provide us with an additional 35 sales representatives. As a result, we believe that as of the early second quarter of 2011 Silenor will be supported by 250 sales representatives, all of whom will promote Silenor in the primary detail position. We have also established the manufacturing and distribution channel for Silenor through agreements with third-party suppliers and service providers, and we have established reimbursement coverage for Silenor with numerous private and government payors. We believe that Silenor is highly differentiated from other available insomnia treatments, and could have significant advantages in the large insomnia market. Based on data from IMS Health, in 2010 the prescription market for the treatment of insomnia grew approximately 6% compared to 2009 to more than 71 million prescriptions. According to IMS Health, the insomnia market accounted for approximately $2 billion in sales in 2010. Silenor for Insomnia It is estimated that approximately one-third, or 70 million, of adult Americans are affected by insomnia. One study has found that approximately 20% of those who suffer from insomnia are treated with prescription medications. Silenor was approved by the FDA for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance in March 2010, and we commercially launched the product in the United States in September 2010. We believe that Silenor has the potential to offer significant benefits to patients with insomnia. Silenor is an oral tablet formulation of doxepin at dosages of 3 mg and 6 mg. Doxepin has been marketed and used for over 35 years at dosages from 75 mg to 300 mg per day and is indicated for the treatment of depression and anxiety. However, the available dosages of doxepin for the treatment of depression and anxiety have historically been seldom used in the treatment of insomnia as they leave many patients reporting next-day residual effects and other undesirable side effects. According to IMS Health data, doxepin accounted for less than 0.1% of the insomnia prescriptions written during 2010. We believe that Silenor, which utilizes doxepin at low dosages of 3 mg and 6 mg, does not exhibit the same pharmacologic effects as high-dose doxepin. Our clinical development program for Silenor included four Phase 3 clinical trials, and the primary efficacy endpoint achieved statistical significance in each trial. Our clinical trials for Silenor also demonstrated a favorable safety and tolerability profile, including a low dropout rate, an adverse event profile comparable to placebo, no clinically meaningful next-day residual effects and no evidence of amnesia, complex sleep behaviors, hallucinations, tolerance or withdrawal effects. Silenor binds to H1 receptors in the brain and blocks histamine, which is believed to play an important role in the regulation of sleep. The leading approved insomnia medications, Ambien, Lunesta and Sonata, work by binding and activating a different set of brain receptors known as gamma aminobutyric acid, or GABA, receptors. Currently approved GABA receptor-activating drugs are designated by the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, as Schedule IV controlled substances, which require additional registration and administrative controls. Silenor is not designated as a controlled substance, and according to its FDA-approved labeling, Silenor does not appear to have any potential for dependency, addiction or abuse. 2 Table of Contents Our Strategy Our goal is to become a leading specialty pharmaceutical company dedicated to creating value for our shareholders through maximizing the potential of our marketed product Silenor and commercializing promising products that treat medical conditions where there is an unmet medical need or a high level of patient dissatisfaction. Specifically, we intend to: • Maximize the value of Silenor. Silenor was approved by the FDA for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance in March 2010, and we commercially launched the product in the U.S. in September 2010. We believe that Silenor is highly differentiated from currently available insomnia treatments and could have significant advantages in a large market. We continue to strategically invest in sales and marketing activities to maximize revenue growth and market share, and we intend to engage in life cycle management activities relating to Silenor, including potential over-the-counter, or OTC, opportunities. • Selectively evaluate other products and late-stage product candidates that are differentiated. We intend to selectively evaluate products and product candidates that are differentiated and meet unmet medical needs or address areas of patient dissatisfaction. To reduce risks, costs and time-to-market, we intend to focus our efforts on currently-marketed products and late-stage product candidates. • Fully leverage our commercial organization. We intend to fully utilize the capacity we have within our existing sales force or any future expansion of our sales force with the goal of maximizing its productivity and profitability for the benefit of our promoted brand(s) and shareholder value. • Establish collaborations and outsourcing arrangements. We have entered into strategic collaborations and outsourcing arrangements to drive growth and profitability. We believe that leveraging the capabilities of third parties will allow us to add efficiency to our operations and expand our commercial reach, including potentially outside of the United States. Silenor Market and Commercialization Disease Background and Market Opportunity Sleep is essential for human performance, general health and well-being. Insomnia, the most common sleep complaint across all stages of adulthood, is a condition characterized by difficulty falling asleep, waking frequently during the night or too early, or waking up feeling unrefreshed. It is estimated that approximately one-third, or 70 million, of adult Americans are affected by insomnia. One study has found that only approximately 20% of those who suffer from insomnia are currently treated with prescription medications. Chronic insomnia, insomnia lasting more than four weeks, is often associated with a wide range of adverse conditions, including mood disturbances, difficulties with concentration and memory, and certain cardiovascular, pulmonary and gastrointestinal disorders. Chronic sleep deprivation has also been associated with an increased risk of depression, diabetes and obesity, among other disorders. The National Institutes of Health 2005 State-of-the-Science Conference statement on the treatment of insomnia stated that estimates placed the direct and indirect annual costs of chronic insomnia at tens of billions of dollars, but cautioned that such estimates were based on many assumptions and varied extensively. The U.S. market for prescription products to treat insomnia grew to approximately 64 million prescriptions in 2010 according to IMS Health, a growth rate of 2% for the year. According to IMS Health, the insomnia market accounted for approximately $2 billion in sales in 2010. Limitations of Current Therapies According to a recent Sleep in America Poll, 65% of respondents reported experiencing insomnia symptoms a few nights a week. In addition, 42% of respondents often experienced awakenings during the night or waking up too early without being able to go back to sleep, which is referred to as sleep maintenance, and 29% had difficulty falling asleep, which is referred to as sleep onset. Historically, insomnia therapies have addressed sleep onset rather than sleep maintenance and duration. Only recently have therapies been approved with indications for sleep maintenance, although the ability of previously-available drugs to maintain sleep throughout the night without unwanted next-day residual effects remains limited. The current market-leading prescription products for the treatment of insomnia include GABA-receptor agonists such as Ambien, zolpidem, the generic form of Ambien, in various formulations, Ambien CR, a controlled-release formulation of Ambien, zolpidem ER, the generic form of Ambien CR, Lunesta, Sonata and zaleplon, the generic form of Sonata, in various formulations, melatonin agonists such as Rozerem, several hypnotic benzodiazepines such as temazapam (Restoril) and flurazepam (Dalmane), and sedating antidepressants such as trazodone (Desyrel). 3 Table of Contents According to physicians that we surveyed in our market research, one of the primary reasons they prescribe sedating antidepressants for the treatment of insomnia is that they generally are not associated with the risk of dependency such as that associated with GABA-receptor agonists. As a result, sedating antidepressants are not Schedule IV controlled substances, and there are no restrictions on their duration of use. As an example, it is estimated that the majority of trazodone prescriptions are prescribed off-label for the treatment of insomnia. With respect to patients, our pre-launch market research indicated that the market is still underserved due in large part to characteristics associated with many of the then-marketed products. For example, 41% of patients claimed that their medication did not provide them with a full night’s sleep, almost one-third of patients claimed they woke feeling groggy, and 33% claimed to have suffered from memory impairment at some time after taking medication, with almost 80% reporting that they found memory lapse somewhat or very scary. Additionally, 24% of patients on prescription insomnia medication claimed that they were dependent on their medication and could not sleep without it. In addition, drugs prescribed for insomnia have been associated with many other unwanted side effects, such as dry mouth, unpleasant taste, blurred vision, residual next-day effects, amnesia, hallucinations, physical and psychological dependence, complex sleep behaviors such as sleep driving, hormonal changes and gastrointestinal effects. We believe that drugs with improved tolerability would be well received by both physicians and patients and will have the potential to accelerate the growth in the market. Silenor and its Benefits We believe that Silenor offers a number of benefits: • Non-scheduled. Because Silenor is not a Schedule IV controlled substance, it can be made available to physicians, facilitating initial physician and patient trial without the additional sampling regulation that applies to controlled substances. • Safety and tolerability. In our clinical trials for Silenor, there was a low dropout rate, an adverse event profile comparable to placebo and no clinically meaningful next-day residual effects, and we did not observe any amnesia, complex sleep behaviors, hallucinations, tolerance or withdrawal effects or any effect on QT interval prolongation. In addition, high-dose doxepin has been prescribed for over 40 years for depression at up to 50 times our proposed maximum dosage for the treatment of insomnia. • Efficacy. Silenor is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance. Silenor is the first and only non-scheduled prescription sleep medication approved by the FDA for the treatment of the most commonly reported nighttime symptoms of insomnia: waking frequently during the night and/or waking too early and being unable to return to sleep. Silenor is approved for the treatment of both transient, or short term, and chronic, or long term, insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance in both adults and elderly patients. Commercialization Our commercial strategy is multi-faceted and geared toward maximizing the value of products we commercialize. We are committed to driving prescription growth and market share through experienced sales representatives providing in-person promotion to high-prescribing physicians. These efforts are complemented by on-line and other non-personal promotional initiatives that target both physicians and patients. We are also focused on ensuring broad patient access to our products by negotiating agreements with leading commercial managed care organizations and with government payors. The goals of these efforts are to achieve preferred formulary status relative to our branded competitors and to minimize patients’ out-of-pocket costs. 4 Table of Contents We believe that the commercial success of Silenor largely depends on gaining access to the highest prescribing physicians of insomnia treatments. We have built a sales and marketing infrastructure focused on timely and informative education of these physicians and their office personnel in the effective and appropriate use of Silenor. We accomplish this through in-person promotional and educational programs, product sampling, and other non-personal promotional activities such as telemarketing, e-detailing and web-based programs. The field sales representatives each undergo a rigorous training program focused on our product attributes, disease background, competitive products and our sales techniques, as well as compliance with applicable laws. We commercially launched Silenor in September 2010 with 110 sales representatives provided to us on an exclusive basis under our contract sales agreement with Publicis and managed by our sales management personnel, and an additional 105 sales representatives provided to us under our co-promotion agreement with P&G. The Somaxon-managed field-based sales force promotes Silenor primarily to psychiatrists, neurologists, sleep specialists, pain and addiction specialists and other high prescribing physicians of insomnia products. The P&G sales force promotes Silenor primarily to primary care physicians. In February 2011, we engaged Publicis to provide us with an additional 35 sales representatives. As a result, we believe that as of the early second quarter of 2011, Silenor will be supported by 250 sales representatives, all of whom will promote Silenor in the primary detail position. We also have contracted with a third party national account management firm with extensive experience in reimbursement contracting to engage in discussions with managed care plans and government sponsored systems such as Medicare Part D, the VA/ DOD and Medicaid, where they will be seeking favorable managed care formulary treatment for Silenor. Our goal in this effort is to achieve a formulary position on commercial payor and government sponsored plans that will make Silenor available to patients at a lower out-of-pocket cost, and/or on a less restrictive basis. Publicis Contract Sales Agreements In July 2010, we entered into a Professional Detailing Services Agreement with Publicis and a Supplement to the Services Agreement, and we entered into an amendment to the Supplement in February 2011. Under these agreements, Publicis provides sales support to promote Silenor in the United States through 110 full-time sales representatives, one regional field coordinator and one national business director, all of whom are employees of Publicis. Publicis is in the process of recruiting an additional 35 full-time sales representatives and an additional regional field coordinator, and we expect all of these additional people to be deployed as of the early second quarter of 2011. In consideration for Publicis’ services under the Publicis agreements, we paid Publicis a portion of the fees for the start-up and additional recruiting phases of the engagements upon signing and the remainder upon completion of the applicable services. We also pay Publicis a fixed monthly fee, which fee is subject to certain quarterly adjustments based on actual staffing levels. During the term of the Publicis agreements, a portion of Publicis’ management fee is subject to payment by us only to the extent that specified performance targets are achieved. The performance targets relate to the initial scale-up activities and recruiting, turnover and vacancy rates, call attainment rates and specified sales goals. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse Publicis for approved pass-through costs, which primarily include bonus, meeting and travel costs and certain administrative expenses. We may hire representatives of Publicis upon 30 days notice to Publicis by paying certain fees to Publicis. The initial term of the Publicis agreements runs through August 29, 2012. We may extend the term of the agreements by providing Publicis with written notification no later than 90 days prior to the expiration of the initial term, subject to agreement on compensation terms with Publicis. Prior to the first anniversary of the deployment of Publicis’ sales representatives, we have the right to terminate the agreements upon 90 days written notice and payment to Publicis of a termination fee in a specified amount. We have the right to terminate the Publicis agreements at any time after the one year anniversary of the deployment of Publicis’ sales representatives without paying a termination fee. Somaxon may also terminate the agreements by hiring a specified number of sales representatives without paying a termination fee. In addition, either party may terminate the agreements upon an uncured material breach by the other party, upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party or if a change in law renders the performance of a material obligation of the agreements unlawful. 5 Table of Contents P&G Co-Promotion Agreement In August 2010, we entered into a Co-Promotion Agreement with P&G. Under the agreement, P&G provides primary care physician sales support to promote Silenor in the United States through its team of full-time sales representatives. P&G is required to provide a minimum number of primary details each quarter to certain primary care healthcare professionals and a minimum number of calls to pharmacists each year during the term of the agreement. Beginning as of January 1, 2011, P&G is also providing us with certain managed care support services. We have also granted to P&G a right of first negotiation relating to rights to develop and market Silenor as an OTC medication in the U.S. In consideration for P&G’s services under the co-promotion agreement, we pay P&G a fixed fee and a royalty fee as a percentage of U.S. net sales on a quarterly basis during the term of the agreement. The agreement also provides for financial penalties in the event that either party fails to deliver specified minimum detailing requirements under certain circumstances. Each party will be responsible for the costs of maintaining and operating its own sales force, and we are responsible for all other costs pertaining to the commercialization of Silenor. The term of the agreement runs through December 31, 2012, and we will pay P&G a reduced royalty fee based on U.S. net sales of Silenor for a period of one year after the expiration of the agreement or its earlier termination under certain circumstances. Beginning as of June 30, 2012, the parties will discuss in good faith the continuation of the collaboration upon mutually-agreed terms and conditions. We have the right to terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice if P&G fails to provide at least 75% of its minimum detailing obligations. P&G may cure such shortfall within the 90 days following the written notice provided there is no other breach of the minimum detailing obligations within the prior 12 month period. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice to the other party, although no such termination may be effective prior to December 31, 2011. P&G may terminate the agreement if Silenor is withdrawn from the market for longer than three months as the result of a legal requirement or 30 days after the end of a calendar quarter in which the market share for Silenor is less than 75% of the Silenor market share immediately prior to the loss of Silenor’s market exclusivity in the United States. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement upon a large scale recall or withdrawal of Silenor from the U.S. market resulting from a significant safety risk that is not due to tampering, a remediable manufacturing problem or other defect that can be cured after such risk is discovered. Either party may also terminate the agreement upon an uncured material breach by the other party, upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party or a force majeure event that lasts for at least six months. Technology In-Licenses In a license agreement entered into in August 2003, which was amended and restated in September 2010, we acquired the exclusive, worldwide license from ProCom One, Inc., or ProCom, to certain patents to develop and commercialize low dosages of doxepin for the treatment of insomnia. Although our license to the low-dose doxepin patents is a worldwide license, we currently intend to develop and commercialize Silenor in the United States only, since patent protection for the current dosage form is limited to the United States. The term of the license extends until the last licensed patent expires, which is expected to occur no earlier than 2020. The license agreement is terminable at any time by us with 30 days notice if we believe that the use of the product poses an unacceptable safety risk or if it fails to achieve a satisfactory level of efficacy. Either party may terminate the agreement with 30 days notice if the other party commits a material breach of its obligations and fails to remedy the breach within 90 days, or upon the filing of bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, or receivership proceedings relating to the other party. As consideration for the license, we have paid an aggregate of $2.5 million in combined upfront and milestone payments. We are also obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of the licensed products. We have the right to grant sublicenses to third parties. We also issued 84,000 shares of common stock to ProCom One contemporaneously with our Series A preferred stock financing. In October 2006, we entered into a supply agreement pertaining to a certain ingredient used in our formulation for Silenor. In August 2008, we amended our supply agreement to provide us with the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin. As part of the amendment, we made an upfront license payment of $0.2 million and are obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of Silenor beginning as of the expiration of the statutory exclusivity period for Silenor in each country in which Silenor is marketed. Such royalty is only payable if one or more patents under the license agreement continue to be valid in each such country and a patent relating to our formulation for Silenor has not issued in such country. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Silenor Patents and Patent Applications We are the exclusive licensee of four U.S. patents from ProCom claiming the use of low dosages of doxepin and other antidepressants. U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229, “Treatment of Transient and Short Term Insomnia,” covers dosages of doxepin from 0.5 mg to 20 mg for use in the treatment of transient insomnia and expires in February 2020. U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment for Insomnia,” claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin and expires in March 2013. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of our “Treatment for Insomnia” patent. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise healthy patients with chronic insomnia and for patients with chronic insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosage ranges having an upper limit of approximately 10 mg or higher. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. Because Silenor’s approved indication is consistent with the subject matter of our patent claims, we believe that our licensed patents will restrict the ability of competitors to market doxepin with identical drug labeling. Additionally, we have the exclusive license from ProCom to a third patent in the series, U.S. Patent No. 5,643,897, which is a divisional of the ’047 patent and claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using amitriptyline, trimipramine, trazodone and mixtures thereof in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg. This patent expires in March 2013. A fourth patent to which we have an exclusive license from ProCom, U.S. Patent No. 6,344,487, claims a method of treating insomnia with low dosage forms (0.5 mg to 10 mg) of nortriptyline. This patent expires in June 2020. In addition, pursuant to our agreement with a supplier for a key ingredient used in our formulation of Silenor, we have the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin, and the exclusive license to the related patents and patent applications. We submitted for listing six of these issued patents in the FDA’s publication “Approved Drug Product with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,” commonly known as the Orange Book. In addition in February 2011, we received a Notice of Allowance from the USPTO for claims under U.S. patent application no. 11/781,165, which application is exclusively assigned to us. This patent application generally relates to dosing Silenor 3mg and 6mg tablets at least three hours after a meal to promote faster onset of action and reduce the potential for next-day residual sedation. A Notice of Allowance is the official notification that the USPTO finds the claimed subject matter allowable and intends to issue the patent pending payment of the issue fee. Given this action, we expect the patent to issue in the second quarter of 2011. If the patent is ultimately issued as we expect, this patent will expire no earlier than July 2027. The pharmacokinetic changes that result from dosing Silenor within three hours after a meal have important implications relating to both the efficacy and safety of the product that are described in the Silenor prescribing information. As a result, we plan to list the patent in the Orange Book once it is issued. 7 Table of Contents We have filed multiple other patent applications resulting from unexpected findings from our development program. A brief summary of the content of these patent applications includes: • Formulations and manufacturing processes, • Methods of preventing early awakenings and improving sleep efficiency, • Methods of treating insomnia without sedative tolerance, rebound insomnia or weight gain, and • Methods of treating insomnia in the elderly. We have included these findings in our approved prescribing information and, if the patents issue, we intend to list them in the Orange Book. The combination of these patents, if issued, and our label could result in our patent protection being extended to 2028. We have also filed multiple patent applications relating to potential future products containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia. A brief summary of the content of these patent applications includes: • Orally disintegrating formulations, • Combination drug formulations, and • Method of treating insomnia with ultra low dose doxepin. Silenor Patent Litigation On November 3, 2010, we received a notice from each of Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. that each had filed with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. Each of the notices included a “paragraph IV certification” with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. A paragraph IV certification is a certification by a generic applicant that in the opinion of that applicant, the patents listed in the Orange Book for a branded product are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the generic product. On December 15, 2010, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc., or collectively, Actavis, and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan, Inc., or collectively, Mylan. The lawsuit alleges that Actavis and Mylan have each infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing their ANDAs relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of each of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against either Mylan or Actavis. On December 23, 2010, we received a notice from Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. that it had filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. This notice included a “paragraph IV certification” with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. On February 2, 2011, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. and Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., or collectively, Par. The lawsuit alleges that Par has infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing its ANDA relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against Par. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Silenor being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of Silenor and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Other Intellectual Property Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secret information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, and we would not be able to prevent their use. Third Party Intellectual Property Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are operating. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or product candidates may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products or product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If any of these intellectual property rights was found to cover our products or product candidates or their uses, we could be required to pay damages and could be restricted from commercializing our products or from using our proprietary technologies unless we obtained a license to the intellectual property rights. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right, which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may be required to pay if a court decides that the product or product candidate at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product or product candidate or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or fees or grant cross-licenses to our technology; and • redesigning our products or product candidates so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents issued to third-parties do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products or product candidates or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege that they have patent rights encompassing our products or product candidates or methods. Research and Development To date, our research and development expenses have consisted primarily of costs associated with our clinical trials managed by contract research organizations, or CROs, our non-clinical development program for Silenor, submitting and seeking approval of the NDA for Silenor, regulatory expenses, drug development costs, salaries and related employee benefits, and share-based compensation expense. During 2010, our most significant research and development costs were salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation expense and costs associated with our development program for Silenor. During 2009, our most significant research and development costs were salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation expense, costs associated with the conduct of the continuing two-year carcinogenicity study for Silenor, costs associated with the resubmission of the Silenor NDA to the FDA and drug development costs pertaining to Silenor. In 2008, our most significant costs were associated with our non-clinical development program for Silenor, a standard clinical trial that we voluntarily conducted during 2008 to evaluate the potential for ECG effects of doxepin and the preparation and submission of our NDA for Silenor. 9 Table of Contents Silenor Competition The FDA-approved products that are currently available for the treatment of insomnia consist of sedative hypnotics, including GABA-receptor agonists, hypnotic benzodiazepines and a melatonin agonist. In addition, products such as sedating antidepressants and other products which are not approved for the treatment of insomnia are sometimes prescribed for such use. Ambien, a GABA-receptor agonist, and its generic equivalents have historically been the market share leaders in the insomnia segment. Generic versions of Ambien (zolpidem) entered the market in April 2007. According to data obtained from IMS Health, generic versions of Ambien accounted for nearly 60% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010. In September 2005, Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc. launched Ambien CR, a controlled-release version of Ambien. Unlike Ambien, Ambien CR is indicated for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnia and does not have a label restriction limiting the length of time of its use. Generic versions of Ambien CR, called zolpidem ER, entered the market in October 2010. Ambien CR accounted for approximately 7% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010, zolpidem ER contributed less than 1% and branded Ambien accounted for approximately 1% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010, according to data obtained from IMS Health. Lunesta, marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., is a GABA-receptor agonist that was approved in December 2004 by the FDA and was launched in the second quarter of 2005. Lunesta accounted for approximately 7% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Lunesta is indicated for the treatment of insomnia and has been shown to decrease sleep latency and increase sleep maintenance. It was the first of several products to have the short-term use restriction removed from its label. Sonata, a GABA-receptor agonist sold by Pfizer Inc. for the treatment of insomnia, and its generic equivalents accounted for less than 1% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Rozerem was launched by Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. in September 2005 and accounted for nearly 1% of insomnia prescriptions in 2010 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Rozerem is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. It was the first drug approved for the treatment of insomnia that is not a Schedule IV controlled substance. With the exception of Rozerem, the approved medications for the treatment of insomnia all act on GABA receptors and are designated as Schedule IV controlled substances. Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. conducted a clinical trial to evaluate the administration of a combination of Takeda’s product Rozerem and 3 mg of doxepin in patients with insomnia. We are unaware of the results of this trial. A number of companies are marketing reformulated versions of previously approved GABA-receptor agonists. In March 2009, Meda AB and Orexo AB received approval from the FDA for Edluar, formerly known as Sublinox, a sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem, for the short-term treatment of insomnia. Meda and Orexo launched this product in the U.S. in September of 2009. In December 2008, NovaDel Pharma, Inc. received approval from the FDA for ZolpiMist, an oral mist formulation of zolpidem for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. In November 2009, NovaDel and ECR Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc., entered into an exclusive license and distribution agreement to commercialize and manufacture ZolpiMist in the United States and Canada. ECR Pharmaceuticals launched the product in the United States in February 2011. 10 Table of Contents The remaining market is comprised of older generic benzodiazepines and sedative antidepressants. In addition to the currently approved or off-label products for the treatment of insomnia, a number of new products may enter the insomnia market over the next several years. While the new entrants would bring additional competition to the insomnia market, they would also increase the awareness of insomnia and further expand the market. Additionally, we believe market growth will also be driven by the aging of the population and emerging awareness of the links between sleep, health and overall well-being. Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. submitted an NDA for Intermezzo, a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem, in 2008, and in October 2009, Transcept announced that it received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to such NDA. Transcept held a meeting with the FDA in January 2010 to discuss the implications of the complete response letter, and resubmitted its NDA for the product in January 2011. The FDA assigned a Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, or PDUFA, action date of July 14, 2011 for completion of the NDA review. Transcept and Purdue Pharmaceutical Products L.P. have entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced positive results from a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Sonata. In July 2010, Alexza announced that it was advancing this product candidate into Phase 2 clinical trials during the first half of 2011 for the treatment of insomnia in patients who have difficulty falling asleep, including those patients who awaken in the middle of the night and have difficulty falling back asleep. Somnus Therapeutics, Inc. has announced positive results from two Phase 1 clinical trials of a delayed-release formulation of zaleplon and has initiated Phase 2 clinical trials of that product candidate. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed two Phase 3 insomnia clinical trials of tasimelteon, a melatonin receptor agonist. Tasimelteon received orphan drug designation status for non-24 hour sleep/wake disorder in blind individuals with no light perception. Vanda has initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for tasimelteon to treat this disorder. Vanda has announced that it plans to conduct additional clinical trials and plans to file an NDA with the FDA by the first quarter of 2013. Merck & Co., Inc. has MK-4305, an orexin antagonist, in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia and MK-6096 in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia. Merck has announced that it plans to file regulatory applications for MK-4305 in 2012. Several other companies, including Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics, and Eli Lilly and Company is evaluating a potential hypnotic that is a dual histamine/5HT2 antagonist. Additionally, several companies are evaluating new formulations of existing compounds and other compounds for the treatment of insomnia. Upon the expiration of, or successful challenge to, our patents covering Silenor, generic competitors may introduce a generic version of Silenor at a lower price. Some generic manufacturers have also demonstrated a willingness to launch generic versions of branded products before the final resolution of related patent litigation (known as an “at-risk launch”). On December 15, 2010, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis and Mylan. The lawsuit alleges that Actavis and Mylan have each infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing their ANDAs relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of each of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against either Mylan or Actavis. On February 2, 2011, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par. The lawsuit alleges that Par has infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing its ANDA relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against Par. 11 Table of Contents We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but given the unpredictability of patent litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Manufacturing We have entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing services agreement with Patheon for the manufacture of commercial quantities of our Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. Although we are not required to purchase any minimum quantity of Silenor under the agreement, we have agreed to purchase from Patheon not less than specified percentages of our total annual commercial requirements from all suppliers of Silenor, which vary depending upon annual volume. The agreement provides for an initial five-year term that began upon commencement of the manufacturing services, and thereafter automatically continues for successive twelve-month terms unless terminated by written notice at least eighteen months prior to the end of the then-current term. Either party may terminate the agreement upon written notice if the other party has failed to remedy a material breach of any of its representations, warranties or other obligations under the agreement within 60 days following receipt of written notice of such breach. In addition, either party may immediately terminate the agreement upon written notice if (1) the other party is declared insolvent or bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) a voluntary petition of bankruptcy is filed in any court of competent jurisdiction by such other party or (3) the agreement is assigned by such other party for the benefit of creditors. We have the right to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior written notice in the event that any governmental agency takes any action, or raises any objection, that prevents us from importing, exporting, purchasing or selling the product candidate. In addition, we have the right to terminate the agreement upon twelve months’ prior written notice in connection with our partnering, collaboration, licensing, sublicensing, co-promotion, sale or divestiture of rights to the product candidate, provided that no such termination shall be effective before the third anniversary of the commencement date. We have also entered into agreements with Plantex USA, Inc. to manufacture our supply of doxepin active pharmaceutical ingredient and with Anderson Packaging, Inc. to package Silenor finished products, and we have another agreement in place for the supply of a key ingredient contained in our formulation for Silenor. In August 2008, we entered into an amendment to our supply agreement providing us with the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin. Pursuant to the amended supply agreement, we made an upfront license payment of $0.2 million and are obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of Silenor beginning as of the expiration of the statutory exclusivity period for Silenor in each country in which Silenor is marketed. This royalty is only payable if one or more patents under the license agreement continue to be valid in each such country and a patent relating to our formulation for Silenor has not issued in such country. We sell Silenor through pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn distribute the products to retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the distribution of our products, including logistics management, sample accountability, storage and transportation. Government Regulation Governmental authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, among other things, of pharmaceutical products. In the United States, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and regulations, subjects pharmaceutical products to rigorous review. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. We and our manufacturers and CROs may also be subject to regulations under other federal, state, and local laws, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Clean Air Act and import, export and customs regulations as well as the laws and regulations of other countries. 12 Table of Contents FDA Approval Process To obtain approval of a new product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling, including a proposed proprietary name for the product. The testing and collection of data and the preparation of necessary applications are expensive and time-consuming. The FDA may not act quickly or favorably in reviewing these applications, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain FDA approvals that could delay or preclude us from marketing our products. The process required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: completion of non-clinical laboratory and animal testing in compliance with FDA regulations, submission of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin, performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use, and submission and approval by the FDA of an NDA. The sponsor typically conducts human clinical trials in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1 clinical trials, the product is tested in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more dosages. In Phase 2 clinical trials, in addition to safety, the sponsor evaluates the efficacy of the product on targeted indications, and identifies possible adverse effects and safety risks in a patient population. Phase 3 clinical trials typically involve testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at geographically-dispersed test sites. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s good clinical practices requirements. The FDA may order the partial, temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The institutional review board, or IRB, generally must approve the clinical trial design and patient informed consent at each clinical site and may also require the clinical trial at that site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB’s requirements, or may impose other conditions. The applicant must submit to the FDA the results of the non-clinical and clinical trials, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling, in the form of an NDA, including payment of a user fee, unless the applicant qualifies for a waiver of the user fee. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA has ten months in which to complete its review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the three months prior to the PDUFA goal date. If the FDA’s evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for a specified indication. If the FDA is not sufficiently satisfied with the information in the NDA to issue an approval letter, the FDA may issue a complete response letter, which usually will describe all of the specific deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the NDA and when possible, recommend actions that the NDA sponsor may take to address the identified deficiencies. On March 18, 2010, the FDA notified us that it approved our NDA for Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep maintenance. Section 505(b)(1) New Drug Applications The approval process described above is premised on the applicant being the owner of, or having obtained a right of reference to, all of the data required to prove the safety and effectiveness of a drug product. This type of marketing application, sometimes referred to as a “full” or “stand-alone” NDA, is governed by Section 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. A Section 505(b)(1) NDA contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness, which includes the results of non-clinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product, in addition to other information. 13 Table of Contents Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications As an alternate path to FDA approval for new indications, formulations or strengths of previously-approved products, a company may file a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, instead of a “stand-alone” or “full” NDA filing under Section 505(b)(1) as described above. Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit the applicant to rely upon the FDA’s findings of safety and effectiveness for an approved product or on published information. We submitted our NDA for Silenor under Section 505(b)(2), and as such it relied, in part, on the FDA’s previous findings of safety and effectiveness for doxepin. To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on the FDA’s findings for an already-approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA’s Orange Book publication. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product’s Orange Book-listed patents or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the Section 505(b)(2) application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. The Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2), over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If these companies successfully challenge the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), the FDA may be required to change its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). This could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any Section 505(b)(2) NDA that we submit. Regulatory Status and Requirements In connection with the approval of our NDA for Silenor, the FDA imposed certain requirements upon us. The FDA has required us to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, consisting of a medication guide and a timetable for assessment of its effectiveness. We are also required to complete a standard clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of Silenor in children aged 6 to 16 pursuant to the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, and to submit the final results of this trial by March 2015. The Hatch-Waxman Act Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly-approved drugs and indications benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five-year marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. Hatch-Waxman prohibits the submission of an ANDA, or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for another version of such drug during the five-year exclusive period; however, as explained above, submission of an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA containing a paragraph IV certification is permitted after four years, which may trigger a 30-month stay of approval of the ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA. Protection under Hatch-Waxman will not prevent the submission or approval of another full NDA; however, the subsequent applicant would be required to conduct its own non-clinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of new and supplemental NDAs, including Section 505(b)(2) NDAs, for, among other things, new indications, formulations, or strengths of an existing drug, if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are essential to the approval of the application. We received three years of marketing exclusivity for Silenor. 14 Table of Contents On December 15, 2010, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis and Mylan. The lawsuit alleges that Actavis and Mylan have each infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing their ANDAs relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of each of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against either Mylan or Actavis. On February 2, 2011, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par. The lawsuit alleges that Par has infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing its ANDA relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against Par. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but given the unpredictability of patent litigation, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Pediatric Exclusivity The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, which was signed into law January 4, 2002, and which reauthorized Section 111 of the 1997 FDA Modernization Act, provides in some cases an additional six months of exclusivity for new or marketed drugs for specific pediatric studies conducted at the written request of the FDA. PREA authorizes the FDA to require pediatric studies for drugs to ensure the drugs’ safety and efficacy in children. PREA requires that certain NDAs or supplements to NDAs contain data assessing the safety and effectiveness for the claimed indication in all relevant pediatric subpopulations. Dosing and administration must be supported for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may also require this data for approved drugs that are used in pediatric patients for the labeled indication, or where there may be therapeutic benefits over existing products. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data, or full or partial waivers from PREA. We received a waiver from PREA requirements for children below age 6, and a deferral of submission of final pediatric study data until March 2015 for children aged 6 to 16. Other Regulatory Requirements Any approved product that we market may also be subject to a number of post-approval regulatory requirements. If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such as promoting or labeling a product for a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes or product enhancements or adding labeling claims, we will need FDA review and approval before the change can be implemented. While physicians may use products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA, we may not label or promote the product for an indication that has not been approved. Securing FDA approval for new indications or product enhancements and, in some cases, for manufacturing and labeling claims, is generally a time-consuming and expensive process that may require us to conduct clinical trials under the FDA’s IND regulations. Even if such studies are conducted, the FDA may not approve any change in a timely fashion, or at all. In addition, adverse experiences associated with use of the products must be reported to the FDA, and FDA rules govern how we can label, advertise or otherwise commercialize our products. There are post-marketing safety surveillance requirements that we will need to meet to continue to market an approved product. The FDA also may, in its discretion, require additional post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the sale or use of these products. The FDA has required us to develop a REMS, to ensure that the benefits of Silenor outweigh its risks. A REMS can include information to accompany the product, such as a patient package insert or a medication guide, a communication plan, elements to assure safe use, and an implementation system, and must include a timetable for assessment of the REMS. Our REMS for Silenor consists of a medication guide and a timetable for assessment of its effectiveness. In addition, the FDA may require modifications to the REMS at a later date if warranted by new safety information. Any future requirements imposed by the FDA may require substantial expenditures. 15 Table of Contents The FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. Our approved label for Silenor includes warnings relating to risks of complex sleep behaviors. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, we and the manufacturers upon which we rely for the manufacture of our products are subject to requirements that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. To comply with cGMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to meet requirements relating to personnel, facilities, equipment, production and process, labeling and packaging, quality control, record-keeping and other requirements. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with cGMP requirements. Also, as part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. This practice is regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities, including, in particular, requirements concerning record-keeping and control procedures. The U.S. Congress recently enacted legislation to reform the healthcare system. A major goal of the new healthcare reform law was to provide greater access to healthcare coverage for more Americans. Accordingly, the new healthcare reform law requires individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to maintain qualifying health coverage, imposes certain requirements on employers with respect to offering health coverage to employees, amends insurance regulations regarding when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and expands existing government healthcare coverage programs to more individuals in more situations. Among other things, the new healthcare reform law specifically: • established annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs, beginning in 2011; 16 Table of Contents • increased minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010; • redefined a number of terms used to determine Medicaid drug rebate liability, including average manufacturer price and retail community pharmacy, effective October 2010; • extended manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 2010; • expanded eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133 percent of the Federal Poverty Level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; • required manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50 percent point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning 2011; and • increased the number of entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective January 2010. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and/or requiring prior authorization by the state program. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional healthcare reform in the future. There have been a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products, changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products, proposals concerning reimportation of pharmaceutical products and proposals concerning safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeit drugs, the federal government and numerous states have enacted pedigree legislation. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect beginning in January 2015. Outside of the United States, our ability to market our products will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. Third-Party Reimbursement and Pricing Controls In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It is and will continue to be time-consuming and expensive for us or our strategic collaborators to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. 17 Table of Contents In many foreign markets, including the countries in the European Union, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing control. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Employees As of February 15, 2011, we had 40 employees, consisting of drug development and manufacturing, regulatory affairs, marketing and administration. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our internet website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet address is www.somaxon.com. Information is also available through the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov or is available at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our success is dependent on the success of Silenor (doxepin). To date, the majority of our resources have been focused on the development of Silenor, and substantially all of our resources are now focused on the commercialization of Silenor. Our ability to generate revenue in the near term will depend solely on the success of this product. Accordingly, any disruption in our ability to generate revenues from the sale of Silenor or lack of success in its commercialization will have a substantial adverse impact on our business. We may require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate planned activities. We began generating revenues from the commercialization of Silenor late in the third quarter of 2010, and our operations to date have generated substantial needs for cash. We expect our negative cash flows from operations to continue until we are able to generate significant cash flows from the commercialization of Silenor. In November 2010, we completed a public offering of 8,800,000 shares of our common stock at a public offering for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $24.8 million, and at December 31, 2010 we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaling $54.8 million. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2010 will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the first quarter of 2012; however, our financial resources may not be adequate through such period due to many factors, including but not limited to the rate of growth of Silenor sales and the actual cost of commercial activities. 18 Table of Contents We are responsible for the costs relating to the commercialization of Silenor. As a result, commercial activities relating to Silenor are likely to result in the need for substantial additional funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • our success in generating cash flows from the commercialization of Silenor, together with our co-promotion partner P&G; • the costs of establishing or contracting for commercial programs and resources; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • the rate of progress and cost of our non-clinical studies, clinical trials and other development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. In February 2011, we entered into a loan agreement with Comerica Bank, or Comerica, pursuant to which we may request advances in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $15.0 million. Amounts borrowed under the loan agreement may be repaid and re-borrowed at any time prior to February 7, 2013. We have no amounts outstanding under the loan agreement. Our ability to borrow under the loan agreement depends upon a number of conditions and restrictions, and we cannot be certain that we will satisfy all borrowing conditions at a time when we desire to borrow such amounts. For example, our ability to borrow at any given time is subject to the representations and warranties we made to Comerica under the loan agreement being generally true and correct at such time. Furthermore, we are subject to a number of affirmative and negative covenants, each of which we must be in compliance with at the time of any proposed borrowing. If we have not satisfied these various conditions, or an event of default otherwise has occurred, we may be unable to borrow amounts under the loan agreement, and may be required to repay any amounts previously borrowed. In addition to the amounts available under our Comerica facility, we intend to obtain any additional funding we may require through strategic relationships, public or private equity or debt financings, assigning receivables or royalty rights, or other arrangements and cannot assure that such funding will be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional required funds, we may be required to delay, scale-back or eliminate plans or programs relating to our business, relinquish some or all rights to Silenor, or renegotiate less favorable terms with respect to such rights than we would otherwise choose. In addition, if we do not meet our payment obligations to third parties as they come due, we may be subject to litigation claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, and may result in unfavorable results that could further adversely impact our financial condition. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. We, our co-promotion partner, P&G, and our contract sales force provider, Publicis, will need to retain qualified sales and marketing personnel and collaborate in order to successfully commercialize Silenor. In August 2010, we entered into a co-promotion agreement with P&G, under which its sales representatives will provide a minimum number of primary details to certain healthcare professionals and a minimum number of calls to pharmacists promoting Silenor. In addition, in July 2010, we retained Publicis to provide 110 sales representatives to promote Silenor under the terms of a contract sales agreement. In February 2011 we engaged Publicis to provide an additional 35 sales representatives to promote Silenor that we expect to be fully deployed in the early second quarter of 2011. These representatives are employees of Publicis but will be hired to our specifications and will be managed by our team of Somaxon sales management personnel. As a result, Silenor is now supported by 215 field sales representatives who promote Silenor in the primary detail position, and this will be increased to 250 sales representatives once the deployment of the additional sales representatives is complete. However, there can be no assurance that we and Publicis will be able to identify suitable candidates to fill the additional 35 positions on this timeframe, which may result in delaying our ability to increase in-person promotional efforts for Silenor. To the extent we, P&G and Publicis are not successful in retaining qualified sales and marketing personnel, we may not be able to effectively market Silenor. 19 Table of Contents We and P&G each have the right to terminate the co-promotion agreement at any time following December 31, 2011 by providing at least 90 days prior written notice, as well as other more limited termination rights. While our agreement with P&G requires its field sales representatives to promote our products in a minimum number of primary details to target physicians and a minimum number of pharmacy calls, we cannot be sure that P&G’s efforts will be successful. Our agreement with Publicis will cause us to incur significant costs, and we cannot be sure that the efforts of the contract sales force, together with any efforts made by P&G to promote our products, will generate sufficient awareness or demand for our products. If we determine that the contract sales force is not successful and we decide to terminate our agreement with Publicis prior to the one-year anniversary of the deployment of the contract sales force, we will incur termination fees. Any revenues we receive from sales of Silenor will largely depend upon the efforts P&G and Publicis, which in many instances will not be within our control. If we are unable to maintain our co-promotion agreement with P&G, to maintain our contract sales agreement with Publicis or to effectively establish alternative arrangements to market our products, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, despite our arrangements with P&G and Publicis, we still may not be able to cover all of the prescribing physicians for insomnia at the same level of reach and frequency as our competitors, and we ultimately may need to further expand our selling efforts in order to effectively compete. If Silenor or any other product we commercialize does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sale will be limited. The commercial success of Silenor or any other product which we commercialize will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community and reimbursement of the product by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: • the scope and effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution resources and strategies, or those of our collaborators, if any; • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy and physician and patient understanding of differential indications for use, such as sleep maintenance; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of Silenor, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of insomnia or expected to be commercially launched in the future; • off-label substitution by chemically similar or equivalent products, including for Silenor the off-label use of higher-dose generic formulations of doxepin approved and available for the treatment of depression and anxiety; • prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; 20 Table of Contents • limitations or warnings contained in the FDA-approved labeling of Silenor or any other product that we commercialize; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If Silenor or any other product that we commercialize does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, or adequate payment and reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of Silenor or any other product that we commercialize may require significant resources and may never be successful. Restrictions on or challenges to our patent rights relating to our products and limitations on or challenges to our other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for Silenor and any other product candidate we develop or commercialize, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent rights that we have in-licensed relating to Silenor are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us. In particular, we do not hold composition of matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Silenor. Composition of matter patents on active pharmaceutical ingredients are a particularly effective form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. The principal patent protection that covers, or that we expect will cover, Silenor consists of method of use patents. This type of patent protects the product only when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for off-label indications that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may induce or contribute to the infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Because products with active ingredients identical to ours have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that these other products were never used off-label or studied in such a manner that such prior usage would not affect the validity of our method of use patents. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of one of the patents we have in-licensed covering Silenor, (specifically, U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment for Insomnia”) which claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg and expires in March 2013. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the USPTO issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise healthy patients with chronic insomnia and for patients with chronic insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosages above 10 mg. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. We also have multiple internally developed pending patent applications. No assurance can be given that the USPTO or other applicable regulatory authorities will allow pending applications to result in issued patents with the claims we are seeking, or at all. 21 Table of Contents Patent applications in the United States are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of the issued patents that we in-licensed were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or that the inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, third parties may challenge our in-licensed patents and any of our own patents that we may obtain, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims, or could attempt to develop products utilizing the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our products that do not infringe the claims of our in-licensed patents or patents that we may obtain. When a third party files an ANDA for a product containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia at any time during which we have patents listed for Silenor in the FDA’s Orange Book publication, the applicant will be required to certify to the FDA concerning the listed patents. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for Silenor or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. On November 3, 2010, we received a notice from each of Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. that each had filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. Each of the notices included a paragraph IV certification with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. On December 15, 2010, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis and Mylan. The lawsuit alleges that Actavis and Mylan have each infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing their ANDAs relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of each of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against either Mylan or Actavis. On December 23, 2010, we received a notice from Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that it had filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. This notice included a paragraph IV certification with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. On February 2, 2011, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par. The lawsuit alleges that Par has infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing its ANDA relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against Par. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Silenor being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of Silenor and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. Certain pharmaceutical companies’ patent settlement agreements with generic pharmaceutical companies have been challenged by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission alleging a violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and any patent settlement agreement that we may enter into with any generic pharmaceutical company may be subject to similar challenges, which will be both expensive and time consuming and may render such settlement agreements unenforceable. 22 Table of Contents We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights is often very complex in nature, expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with us. The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Silenor are limited to certain low-dosage strengths in the United States, and our market opportunity for this product may be limited by the lack of patent protection for higher dosage strengths for which generic formulations are available and the lack of patent protection in other territories. Although we have an exclusive, worldwide license for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia through the life of the last issued patent to expire, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. In addition, although our in-licensed patent for the treatment of transient insomnia is scheduled to expire in 2020 and our patent that is expected to issue relating to the food effect of Silenor would expire in 2027, our in-licensed patent for the treatment of chronic insomnia is scheduled to expire in March 2013. Accordingly, in the absence of additional patents or other alternatives to obtain additional exclusivity rights for Silenor, a competitor could attempt to market doxepin for a chronic insomnia indication as early as March 2013. Furthermore, the patent protection in the United States for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia is limited to dosages ranging from a lower limit of 0.5 mg to various upper limits up to 20 mg of the active ingredient, doxepin. Doxepin is prescribed at dosages ranging from 75 mg to 300 mg daily for the treatment of depression and anxiety and is available in generic form in strengths as low as 10 mg in capsule form, as well as in a concentrated liquid form dispensed by a marked dropper and calibrated for 5 mg. As a result, we may face competition from the off-label use of these or other dosage forms of generic doxepin. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the FDA for one indication is prescribed by physicians for a different, unapproved indication. In addition, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. Others may attempt to commercialize low-dose doxepin in the European Union, Canada, Mexico or other markets where we do not have patent protection for Silenor. Due to the lack of patent protection for doxepin in territories outside the United States and the potential for correspondingly lower prices for the drug in those markets, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire low-dose doxepin in those other territories. The off-label use of generic doxepin in the United States or the importation of doxepin from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for Silenor and adversely affect our overall business and financial results. We have submitted additional patent applications for Silenor in the United States and outside the United States, but we cannot assure that these will result in issued patents or additional protection in the United States or other jurisdictions. We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures, reimbursement policies and regulatory proposals which, if not favorable to Silenor or any other product that we commercialize, could hinder or prevent our commercial success. Our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor and any other product to which we obtain rights will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the ability to obtain a price we believe is fair for our products; • the ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; 23 Table of Contents • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. The U.S. Congress recently enacted legislation to reform the healthcare system. A major goal of the new healthcare reform law was to provide greater access to healthcare coverage for more Americans. Accordingly, the new healthcare reform law required individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to maintain qualifying health coverage, imposed certain requirements on employers with respect to offering health coverage to employees, amended insurance regulations regarding when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and expanded existing government healthcare coverage programs to more individuals in more situations. Among other things, the new healthcare reform law specifically: • established annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs, beginning in 2011; • increased minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010; • redefined a number of terms used to determine Medicaid drug rebate liability, including average manufacturer price and retail community pharmacy, effective October 2010; • extended manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 2010; • expanded eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133 percent of the Federal Poverty Level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; • required manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50 percent point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning 2011; and • increased the number of entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective January 2010. While this legislation will, over time, increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it also is likely to adversely affect our results of operations. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and/or requiring prior authorization by the state program. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional healthcare reform in the future. As a result of these or other reform measures, we may determine to change our current manner of operation or change our contract arrangements, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business efficiently or on the scale we would like and our ability to raise capital. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. 24 Table of Contents Current healthcare reform measures and any future legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices for Silenor and any other product that we commercialize or exclusion of Silenor or any such other product from coverage and reimbursement programs. Either of those could harm our ability to market our products and significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of our products. Managed care organizations are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some cases, imposing restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and costly, and we expect that it could take several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product and makes a decision with respect to coverage. For example, third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products, or at all. In addition, many insurers and other healthcare payment organizations encourage the use of less expensive alternative generic brands and OTC products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. The availability of generic prescription and OTC products for the treatment of insomnia has created, and will continue to create, a competitive reimbursement environment. Insurers and other healthcare payment organizations frequently make the generic or OTC alternatives more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic or OTC product to the patient is less than the net cost of a prescription branded product to the patient. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic or OTC product competitors and the prescription benefit policies of insurers could have a negative effect on our product revenues and profitability. The competition among pharmaceutical companies to have their products approved for reimbursement also results in downward pricing pressure in the industry and in the markets where our products compete. In some cases, we may discount our products in order to obtain reimbursement coverage, and we may not be successful in any efforts we take to mitigate the effect of a decline in average selling prices for our products. Declines in our average selling prices would also reduce our gross margins. In addition, once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. We may face additional challenges with regard to reimbursement which could affect our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize, including: • the variability of reimbursement rates likely to be caused by the use of miscellaneous drug codes and procedure codes may discourage physicians from providing Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize to certain or all patients depending on their insurance coverage; • the initial use of “miscellaneous drug codes” for billing Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize until such time as specific drug codes are approved could result in slow and/or inaccurate reimbursement and thereby discourage product use; • an increase in insurance plans that place more cost liability onto patients may limit patients’ willingness to pay for Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize and thereby discourage uptake; and • unforeseen changes in federal health care policy guidelines may negatively impact a physician practice’s willingness to provide novel treatments. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic or OTC products, our overall business and financial condition would be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Further, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning reimportation of pharmaceutical products and safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeit drugs, the federal government and numerous states have enacted pedigree legislation. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect beginning in January 2015. Compliance with California and future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements will likely require an increase in our operational expenses and will likely be administratively burdensome. Generic pricing plans, such as those implemented by Wal-Mart, CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens, may affect the market for our products. In September 2006, Wal-Mart began offering certain generic drugs at $4 per prescription, and various other retailers including CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens currently offer generic drugs at similar prices. Some retailers have also offered certain generic drugs for free on a limited basis. These and many other retailers have significant market presence, and any decision by them to make generic analogs of our products available at substantially lower prices may have a material adverse effect on the market for our products and our ability to generate revenues from their sale. Even though Silenor received regulatory approval, it will still be subject to substantial ongoing regulation. Even though U.S. regulatory approval has been obtained for Silenor, the FDA has imposed restrictions on its indicated uses or marketing and imposed ongoing requirements for post-approval studies or other activities. For example, the approved use of Silenor is limited to the treatment of insomnia characterized by sleep maintenance difficulty. In addition, the FDA has required us to implement a REMS consisting of a medication guide and a timetable for assessment of its effectiveness. We are also required to complete a standard clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of Silenor in children aged 6 to 16 pursuant to PREA, and to submit final results of this trial by March 2015. Any issues relating to these restrictions or requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve market acceptance of Silenor and generate revenues from its sale. The FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. Our approved label for Silenor includes warnings relating to risks of complex sleep behaviors. Silenor is also subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. For example, the FDA may require modifications to our REMS for Silenor at a later date if warranted by new safety information. Any future requirements imposed by the FDA may require substantial expenditures. In addition, all marketing activities associated with Silenor, as well as marketing activities related to any other products that we promote, are subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that such activities conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. Such regulation and FDA review could require us to alter our marketing materials or strategy, incur additional costs or delay certain of our promotional activities. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, 26 Table of Contents the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, which apply regardless of the payor. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of Silenor or any other product, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunction, or exclusion of such products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory actions. Approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. The distribution of pharmaceuticals is also regulated by state regulatory agencies, including the requirement to obtain and maintain distribution permits or licenses in many states. Compliance with these requirements may require the expenditure of substantial resources and could impact the manner and scope of our distribution operations. If we fail to comply with applicable state regulations relating to the distribution of Silenor or any other product we market, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunctions, or other regulatory actions. We have implemented a comprehensive compliance program and related infrastructure, but we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. If our operations relating to Silenor fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties, including fines; • suspend regulatory approval; • impose requirements to conduct additional clinical, non-clinical or other studies; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In addition to P&G and Publicis, we rely on other third parties to perform many other necessary services for our commercial products, including services related to the storage and distribution of our products. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on one third-party service provider to provide key services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We also utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to e-detailing, sample processing, and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. 27 Table of Contents We place substantial reliance on the third-party providers that perform services for us. If these third-party service providers fail to effectively provide services to us, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor would be significantly impaired, or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. Our future reporting and payment obligations under governmental purchasing and rebate programs will be complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we will need to calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. The regulations regarding the reporting of such pricing information are complex. Our calculations and methodologies will be subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes to our calculations. In addition, because our calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations will involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with governmental reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. We expect intense competition in the marketplace for Silenor and any other product to which we acquire rights, and new products may emerge that provide different and/or better therapeutic alternatives for the disorders that our products are intended to treat. Silenor competes with well established drugs approved for the treatment of insomnia, including the branded and generic versions of Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc.’s Ambien and Ambien CR, Pfizer’s Sonata, and Lunesta, marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., all of which are GABA-receptor agonists, and Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc.’s Rozerem, a melatonin receptor antagonist. A number of companies are marketing reformulated versions of previously approved GABA-receptor agonists. For example, Meda AB and Orexo AB launched Edluar, formerly known as Sublinox, a sublingual tablet formulation of zopidem in the third quarter of 2009. ECR Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc., launched NovaDel Pharma, Inc.’s ZolpiMist, an oral mist formulation of zolpidem, in the United States in February 2011. In addition to the currently approved products for the treatment of insomnia, a number of new products may enter the insomnia market over the next several years. Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. submitted an NDA for Intermezzo, a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem in 2008, and in October 2009, Transcept announced that it received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to such NDA. Transcept resubmitted its NDA for the product in January 2011. The FDA assigned a PDUFA action date of July 14, 2011 for completion of the NDA review. Transcept and Purdue Pharmaceutical Products L.P. have entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced positive results from a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Sonata. In July 2010, Alexza announced that it was advancing this product candidate into Phase 2 clinical trials during the first half of 2011 for the treatment of insomnia in patients who have difficulty falling asleep, including those patients who awake in the middle of the night and have difficulty falling back asleep. Somnus Therapeutics, Inc. has announced positive results from two Phase 1 clinical trials of a delayed-release formulation of zaleplon and has initiated Phase 2 clinical trials of that product candidate. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed two Phase 3 clinical trials of tasimelteon, a melatonin receptor agonist. Tasimelteon received orphan drug designation status for non-24 hour sleep/wake disorder in blind individuals with no light perception. Vanda has initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for tasimelteon to treat this disorder. Vanda has announced that it plans to conduct additional clinical trials and plans to file an NDA with the FDA by the first quarter of 2013. 28 Table of Contents Merck & Co., Inc. has MK-4305, an orexin antagonist, in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia and MK-6096 in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia. Merck has announced that it plans to file regulatory applications for MK-4305 in 2012. Several other companies, including Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics, and Eli Lilly and Company is evaluating a potential hypnotic that is a dual histamine/5HT2 antagonist. Additionally, several other companies are evaluating new formulations of existing compounds and other compounds for the treatment of insomnia. Furthermore, generic versions of Ambien, Ambien CR and Sonata have been launched and are priced significantly lower than approved, branded insomnia products. Sales of all of these drugs may reduce the available market for, and could put downward pressure on, the price we are able to charge for Silenor, which could ultimately limit our ability to generate significant revenues. Upon the expiration of, or successful challenge to, our patents covering Silenor, generic competitors may introduce a generic version of Silenor at a lower price. Some generic manufacturers have also demonstrated a willingness to launch generic versions of branded products before the final resolution of related patent litigation (known as an “at-risk launch”). A launch of a generic version of Silenor could have a material adverse effect on our business and we could suffer a significant loss of sales and market share in a short period of time. On November 3, 2010, we received a notice from each of Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. that each had filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. Each of the notices included a paragraph IV certification with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. On December 15, 2010, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis and Mylan. The lawsuit alleges that Actavis and Mylan have each infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing their ANDAs relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of each of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against either Mylan or Actavis. On December 23, 2010, we received a notice from Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. that it had filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. This notice included a paragraph IV certification with respect to seven of the eight patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. On February 2, 2011, we, together with ProCom, filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par. The lawsuit alleges that Par has infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229 by filing its ANDA relating to Silenor prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013, unless there is an earlier court decision that the ‘229 patent is not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, other patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor have not been asserted against Par. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Silenor being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of Silenor and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of Silenor or any other product candidate to which we acquire rights from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, will not render Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing resources and experience; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • experience conducting non-clinical studies and clinical trials, and related resources; and • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights. As a result of these factors, our competitors may develop drugs that are more effective and less costly than ours and may be more successful than we are in manufacturing, marketing and selling their products. Our competitors may also obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights or seek to invalidate or otherwise challenge our intellectual property rights, limiting our ability to successfully commercialize products. In addition, manufacturing efficiency and selling and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently have no commercial manufacturing capability and more limited sales and marketing infrastructure than many of our competitors and potential competitors. If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture Silenor, and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We have a contract with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. to manufacture our future required clinical supplies, if any, of Silenor, and we have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Patheon to manufacture our commercial supply of Silenor. We have also entered into agreements with Plantex USA, Inc. to manufacture our supply of doxepin active pharmaceutical ingredient and with Anderson Packaging, Inc. to package Silenor finished products, and we have another agreement in place for the supply of a key ingredient contained in our formulation for Silenor. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to sell Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize or provide any product candidates to patients in our clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial program and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at significant additional expense or terminate the clinical trials completely. In addition, any delay or interruption in our ability to meet commercial demand for Silenor will result in the loss of potential revenues. 30 Table of Contents In addition, all manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is also likely to conduct inspections of our manufacturers’ facilities as part of their review of any marketing applications we submit. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Moreover, our manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulties related to their overall businesses and financial stability, which could result in delays or interruptions of our supply of Silenor. We do not have alternate manufacturing plans in place at this time. If we need to change to other manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for production. Any of these factors could adversely affect the commercial activities for Silenor or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and required approvals for any other product candidate that we develop, or entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if our manufacturers failed to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including bulk drug substance, or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products and integrate them into our operations may impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to selectively evaluate products and product candidates that we believe may be a strategic fit with our business. Because we neither have, nor currently intend to establish, internal research capabilities, we would be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, university scientists and other researchers to sell or license products to us. The success of this strategy will depend upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. However, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. 31 Table of Contents We have limited resources to identify and execute the evaluation, acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or produced profitably, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, together with our collaborators, to manufacture, market and sell Silenor or any other product candidates that we develop and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are operating. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our operations may give rise to claims that our products infringe the patent rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If our products, proprietary technologies or their uses infringe any of these intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the intellectual property rights holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. 32 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the substantial number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. We depend on a limited number of wholesaler customers for the retail distribution of Silenor, and if we lose significant wholesaler customers, our business could be harmed. Our customers for our Silenor product include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and major drug chains. The loss of any of these companies as a wholesaler customer or a material reduction in their purchases or in the prices they are willing to pay for our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Materials necessary to manufacture Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop or commercialize may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay development and commercialization. Although we have contracted with suppliers of doxepin and other key raw materials for Silenor, we largely rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the other materials necessary to produce our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials for Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize, there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate sales revenues. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our non-clinical studies or clinical trials of any other product candidate that we develop, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed or suspended, significantly impacting our development programs. Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, result in the denial or suspension of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. Any of these occurrences could delay or prevent us from continuing to sell Silenor or from commercializing any product candidate that we develop. In addition, the FDA may require, or we may undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of Silenor or any proposed changes to the labeling for Silenor. Silenor will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise. With the use of any marketed drug by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the drug become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In addition, if we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed; 33 Table of Contents • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of the product or implement a new or amended REMS; • we may be subject to related liability; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. We may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could limit the uses of the product candidate and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales. Such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. We have licensed Silenor from a third party. If we default on any of our obligations under that license, or if the licensor exercises a right to terminate the license, we could lose rights to Silenor. We in-licensed rights to Silenor through an exclusive licensing arrangement, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future. Under our license agreement for Silenor, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize Silenor. In addition, our licensor for Silenor has the contractual right to terminate the license agreement upon the breach by or a specified insolvency event involving us. In the event that our licensor for Silenor terminates the license agreement, even though we would maintain ownership of our clinical data and the other intellectual property we have developed relating to Silenor, we would be unable to continue our commercialization activities relating to Silenor and our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We have increased our headcount from 5 full-time employees at January 1, 2010 to 40 full-time employees as of February 15, 2011. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support the growth required to support our commercialization efforts. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage our commercial efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and • attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our commercial goals. 34 Table of Contents We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product and may have to limit its commercialization. The sale of approved products and the use of product candidates by us in clinical trials expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to continue development or commercial activities relating to Silenor or any other product candidate we develop. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for commercial product sales of Silenor, including coverage for product liability claims, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us at all or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, scientific, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development or commercialization objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management team or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, we have advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical, regulatory and commercialization strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development or commercialization of products that may compete with ours. 35 Table of Contents Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Even though Silenor has received regulatory approval, before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any other product candidate we develop, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. The results from clinical trials that we complete may not be predictive of results obtained in future clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. If any product candidate that we develop is not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, or if the FDA does not deem the product candidate to be sufficiently safe and effective to warrant marketing approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, specialty pharma or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements Capital raising activities, such as issuing securities, incurring debt, assigning receivables or royalty rights or entering into collaborations or other strategic transactions, may cause dilution to existing stockholders or a reduction in our stock price, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights and may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Based on our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital levels, we may need to raise substantial additional funds. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Because we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business, among other things, we may conduct substantial equity offerings. For example, in November 2010, we completed a public offering of 8,800,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $24.8 million, and in March 2010, we completed a public offering of 6,900,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $52.7 million. In July 2009, we completed a private placement of 5.1 million shares of our common stock at a price of $1.05 per share and seven-year warrants to purchase up to 5.1 million additional shares of our common stock, exercisable in cash or by net exercise at a price of $1.155 per share, for aggregate net proceeds of $5.7 million. We also have two effective shelf registration statements on Form S-3 filed with the SEC under which we may offer from time to time up to an aggregate of approximately $67.1 million in any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. To the extent that we raise any required additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any such dilution of the holdings of our current stockholders may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. For example, our ability to borrow under our loan agreement with Comerica depends upon a number of conditions and restrictions, and we cannot be certain that we will satisfy all borrowing conditions at a time when we desire to borrow such amounts under the loan agreement. Our ability to borrow under our Comerica loan agreement at any given time is subject to the representations and warranties we made to Comerica under such loan agreement being generally true and correct at such time. Furthermore, we are subject to a number of affirmative and negative covenants, each of which we must be in compliance with at the time of any proposed borrowing. 36 Table of Contents Debt financing, receivables assignments, royalty interest assignments and other types of financing are often coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock. For example, in connection with our July 2009 private placement of equity securities, we issued to the investors warrants to purchase 5.1 million shares of our common stock, 2.3 million of which have not been exercised as of December 31, 2010. To the extent that any of these warrants, or any additional warrants that are outstanding or that we issue in the future, are exercised by their holders, dilution of our existing stockholders’ ownership interests will result. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, rules and regulations of the SEC or other regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to conduct certain types of financing activities, or may affect the timing of and the amounts we can raise by undertaking such activities. For example, under current SEC regulations, if the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or our public float, is less than $75 million, the amount that we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using one or more registration statements on Form S-3 may be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. As of December 31, 2010, our public float was greater than $75 million. Any future indebtedness under our loan agreement with Comerica could adversely affect our financial health. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we may incur up to $15 million of indebtedness. Such indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy other debt obligations we may incur in the future; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because our indebtedness under the loan agreement with Comerica may bear interest at a variable rate. Covenants in our loan agreement with Comerica may limit our ability to operate our business. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we are subject to specified affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability: to undergo certain change of control events; to convey, sell, lease, license, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, other than in certain specified circumstances; to create, incur, assume, guarantee or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; to grant liens; to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; and to make certain investments. In addition, under the loan agreement we are required to maintain a balance of cash with Comerica in an amount of not less than $5.0 million and to maintain 50% of any other cash balances with Comerica, and any other cash and investments must be covered by a control agreement for the benefit of Comerica. We are also subject to specified financial covenants with respect to a minimum liquidity ratio and, once we have two consecutive quarters of profitability, minimum EBITDA requirements, as defined in the loan agreement. 37 Table of Contents Although we believe we were in compliance with all of our non-financial and financial covenants as of entering into the loan agreement, our future ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. If we default under the loan agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, any outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable, which would negatively impact our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. We have never been profitable and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We only began generating revenues from the commercialization of Silenor late in the third quarter of 2010, we have not been profitable since inception, and it is possible that we will not achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and have accumulated losses totaling $216.9 million since inception. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant revenues, or that we will ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • the scope and effectiveness of commercial activities relating to Silenor or any other product that we may commercialize, alone or with a collaborator; • commercial activities of our competitors; • our entering into collaborations; • developments in our current intellectual property lawsuits with Actavis, Mylan and Par; • any other intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • our addition or termination of development programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to development of any product candidate that we develop; • non-cash charges which we incur, including relating to share-based compensation; and • regulatory developments. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The use of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2010, we had generated federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $181.8 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $176.6 million, the majority of which were generated in California. As of December 31, 2010, we had generated federal research and development tax credits of $4.3 million and California research and development tax credits of $2.0 million. Both federal net operating loss carryforwards and federal research and development tax credits have a 20-year carryforward period and begin to expire in 2023 and 2024, respectively. California net operating loss carryforwards have a ten year carryforward period and begin to expire in 2013; however, California has currently suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income. California research and development tax credits have no expiration. 38 Table of Contents Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, annual use of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards will be limited in the event a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50 percent occurs within a three-year period. We determined that such an ownership change occurred as of March 31, 2010 as a result of various stock issuances used to finance our development activities. This ownership change resulted in limitations on the utilization of our tax attributes, including our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. A portion of the remaining net operating losses limited by Section 382 becomes available for use each year. If additional changes in ownership occur as a result of future financing events, then additional net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credit carryovers could be eliminated or restricted. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may have an impact on the value of our investment securities. Our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds and corporate and United States government agency notes. We do not have any auction rate securities. In recent years there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effects on various securities markets. While we do not believe that our investment securities have significant risk of default or illiquidity, we cannot provide absolute assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investments through impairment charges. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock, and market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in December 2005, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our initial public offering on December 15, 2005 through December 31, 2010, the trading prices for our common stock have ranged from a high of $21.24 to a low of $0.18. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • events affecting our existing in-license agreements, our co-promotion agreement with P&G, our contract sales agreement with Publicis, and any future collaborations or other strategic transactions, commercial agreements and grants; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; • developments in our current intellectual property lawsuits with Actavis, Mylan and Par; 39 Table of Contents • any other intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory approval or other changes in the regulatory status of our products or product candidates; • decreased coverage and changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • announcements concerning financing activities; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility or declines in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to comply with the minimum requirements for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline. Our stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must meet specific quantitative standards, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 for our common stock, a public float of $1.0 million, and either $2.5 million in stockholders equity or a market capitalization of $35 million. We are currently in compliance with these standards, but it is possible that we may fail to be in compliance in the future. If the Nasdaq Stock Market provides us with a notice of non-compliance, we may provide a plan to achieve and sustain compliance with continued listing requirements. If we submit the plan and it is accepted by Nasdaq, Nasdaq may grant us a period of up to 105 days from the date of the notice of non-compliance within which to regain compliance with the listing requirements. If Nasdaq determines that our plan is not sufficient to achieve and sustain compliance, or if we are unable to achieve compliance within such period, Nasdaq will provide written notice that our securities will be delisted. At such time, we may appeal the decision to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. If that appeal is unsuccessful, our securities would be delisted. If we were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading, if any, in our shares may continue to be conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or in a non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market, such as the “pink sheets.” Delisting of our shares would result in limited release of the market price of those shares and limited analyst coverage and could restrict investors’ interest in our securities. Also, a delisting could have a material adverse effect on the trading market and prices for our shares and our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. In addition, if our shares were not listed and the trading price of our shares was less than $5.00 per share, our shares could be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act which, among other things, requires that broker/dealers satisfy special sales practice requirements, including making individualized written suitability determinations and receiving a purchaser’s written consent prior to any transaction. In such case, our securities could also be deemed to be a “penny stock” under the Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which would require additional disclosure in connection with trades in those shares, including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. Such requirements could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital in an already challenging capital market. 40 Table of Contents If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of February 15, 2011, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 50.8% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would likely be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. If we are unable to maintain an effective registration statement for the resale of shares under our July 2009 private placement, or if we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, we may be required to pay liquidated damages. In July 2009, we issued 5.1 million shares of common stock at $1.05 per share and seven-year warrants to purchase up to 5.1 million additional shares of common stock, exercisable in cash or by net exercise at a price of $1.155 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $6.0 million and net proceeds of $5.7 million after deducting offering costs of $0.3 million. In connection with the private placement, we agreed to register for resale both the shares of common stock purchased by the investors and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The resale registration statement was filed and declared effective by the SEC in August 2009. We also agreed to other customary obligations regarding registration, including matters relating to indemnification, maintenance of the registration statement and payment of expenses. We may be liable for liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement or the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, in each case for a period of ten consecutive days or for more than thirty days in any 365-day period. The amount of the liquidated damages is one percent per applicable ten or thirty day period, subject to an aggregate maximum of eight percent per calendar year, of the aggregate purchase price of the common stock purchased in the private placement then held by each investor that are registrable securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We expend substantial costs and management resources as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements has caused us to expend substantial costs and management resources and will continue to do so. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers. In June 2007, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board approved Auditing Standard No. 5, and at the same time, the SEC issued guidance for management for complying with the requirements of Section 404. This auditing standard and the related management guidance provides a more risk-based approach to compliance and testing under Section 404. However, we still do and expect to continue to incur substantial costs and to devote significant resources to corporate governance matters. 41 Table of Contents We are also subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access, and the SEC has since issued final rules implementing “say on pay” measures. Our efforts to comply with corporate governance and related requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. If we, or the third-party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with Section 404 and the other corporate governance laws and regulations applicable to us, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot complete any required attestation of our evaluation of our internal controls in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments relating to our periodic or current reports. 