Item 1A. Risk Factors: You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all information contained in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks or uncertainties described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Business Activities Are Highly Regulated and We Depend on Federal Government Funding for Substantially All of Our Revenue; New and Proposed Government Regulation or Legislative Reforms Could Increase Our Cost of Doing Business and Reduce Our Membership, Profitability, and Liquidity. Our health plans are subject to substantial federal and state regulation. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our contracts and licenses, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers, and the public. Moreover, Medicare program premiums account for substantially all of our revenue. Healthcare laws and regulations, including particularly those relating to the Medicare program, are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. PPACA will impact our Medicare Advantage and PDP programs through reducing payments, limiting enrollment periods and opportunities for new members, establishing minimum MLRs, tying payments to quality rankings, adding additional taxes on plans, and increasing fraud and abuse enforcement. Regulations implementing PPACA have been and will continue to be proposed and finalized. Additional changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: • imposing additional license, registration, or capital reserve requirements; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; • increasing mandated benefits without corresponding premium increases; • limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; • forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; and • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. It is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicare program and to continue to serve our members and attract new members. Recent Health Reform Laws May Adversely Affect Our Growth Prospects and Our Results of Operations. In March 2010, PPACA was signed into law. PPACA changes how health care services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through, among other things, significant reductions in the growth of Medicare program payments. In addition, PPACA reforms certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality, and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement. PPACA contains provisions that already has and will continue to impact Medicare Advantage programs and PDPs. Among the more significant risks and uncertainties posed to our business by PPACA are the following: Reduced Medicare Premium Rates. Medicare premiums, including premiums paid to our PDPs, account for substantially all of our revenue. As a consequence, our profitability is dependent upon government funding levels for Medicare programs. Beginning with the 2011 contract year, PPACA provides for significant reductions to payments to Medicare Advantage plans. As required by PPACA, Medicare Advantage basic capitation rates for 2011 will remain at 2010 levels. Coupled with negative risk factor adjustments, and other adjustments, the net effect will be a slight decline in 2011 Medicare Advantage premium rates as compared to 2010 rates (before taking into account any positive effect from increased risk-based rate adjustments), notwithstanding the CMS-acknowledged anticipated rise in medical cost trends. Moreover, PPACA makes the coding intensity adjustment permanent, resulting in a mandated minimum reduction in risk scores of 4.71% in 2014, increasing by at least 0.25% annually until 2019, when the risk score reduction shall not be less than 5.7%. 22 Table of Contents Beginning in 2012, PPACA mandates that Medicare Advantage “benchmark” rates transition over a period at two to six years to Medicare fee-for-service parity (generally targeted as CMS’s calculated average capitation cost for Medicare Part A and Part B benefits in each county). PPACA divides counties in quartiles based on such counties’ costs for fee-for-service Medicare. For counties in the highest cost quartile, the Medicare Advantage benchmark rate will equal 95% of the calculated Medicare fee-for-service costs. The Company estimates that over 80% of its current membership resides in the highest cost quartile counties and, accordingly, the premiums for such members will be transitioned under PPACA to 95% of Medicare fee-for-service costs. In responding to the rate reductions, the Company’s various Medicare plans may have to reduce benefits, charge or increase member premiums, reduce profit margin expectations, or implement a combination of the foregoing, any of these measures could adversely impact our membership growth and revenue expectations. Reduced Enrollment Period. Medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a Medicare Advantage plan rather than receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries are not permitted to change their Medicare benefits. Beginning with 2012 plan years, PPACA changed the annual enrollment period, which for 2012 will begin on October 15, 2011 and end on December 7, 2011 Previously, open enrollment was from November 15 to December 31. Also beginning on January 1, 2011, PPACA mandates that persons enrolled in Medicare Advantage may disenroll only during the first 45 days of the year, and only may enroll in traditional Medicare fee-for-service rather than another Medicare Advantage plan. Prior law allowed a member to disenroll during the first 90 days of the year and to enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan, which has been a traditional source of growth for our plans’ membership. There can be no assurance that these changes will not restrict our future member growth, limit our ability to enter new service areas, limit the viability of our internal sales force, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to market to or enroll new members in our established service areas. Minimum MLRs. Beginning in 2014, PPACA prescribes a minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, of 85% for the amount of premium revenue to be expended on medical costs. Financial and other penalties may result from failing to achieve the minimum MLR ratio, including requirements to refund shortfalls in medical costs to CMS and termination of a plan’s Medicare Advantage contract for prolonged failure. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our reported Medicare Advantage plan MLR, as traditionally calculated, was substantially below 85%. On November 22, 2010, DHHS issued rules clarifying the definitions and minimum MLR requirements, but only as applicable to certain commercial health plans. Although these rules are not applicable to Medicare Advantage plans, they determine MLR by adding a plan’s total reimbursement for clinical services plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). There can be no assurance that CMS will not interpret the MLR requirement in the same manner for Medicare Advantage plans, however. In such event, it is not clear what the Company’s historical or prospective MLR would be under such calculation. Complying with the MLR requirement by increasing our medical expenditures or refunding any shortfalls to the federal government could have an adverse affect on our operating margins and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents CMS Star Ratings. CMS currently rates Medicare Advantage and Part D plans on certain quality metrics using a five-star rating system. Under PPACA, beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage plans with a rating of four or five stars will be eligible for a “quality bonus” in their basic capitation premium rates (1.5% in 2012, phasing to 5% in 2014 and beyond). On November 10, 2010, CMS announced an acceleration of the bonus program, described as the “Quality Bonus Payment Demonstration.” All Medicare Advantage plans are automatically enrolled in this three year demonstration program, which begins in 2012. Under the Quality Bonus Payment Demonstration, bonus payments will be made to plans with at least a three star rating (scaling from 3.0% for three stars to 5.0% for five stars). For 2011, which determines bonus payments in 2012, the Company has 12 plans with 3.0 stars ratings, one plan with 3.5 stars, and two plans with 4.0 stars. Also beginning in 2012, a plan’s star ratings will affect the rebate available to a plan. The rebate is based on the difference between a plan’s bid and the relevant benchmark set by CMS. Currently if the bid comes in below the benchmark, then the plan is given 75% of that difference, which is called a “rebate,” which can be used to decrease members’ costs or add benefits to the plan. Under PPACA, plans with the highest star rating (4.5 or higher) will have their rebate percentage reduced to 70% by 2014, plans with a star rating of 3.5 or 4.0 will have their rebate percentage reduced to 65% by 2014, and plans with a star rating of 3.0 or below will have their rebate percentage reduced to 50% by 2014. Notwithstanding concerted efforts by the Company, there can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in maintaining or improving its star ratings and other quality measures. Accordingly, Company plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses or increased rebates and may have their current rebates reduced, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership, and reduce profit margins. Federal Premium Tax. Beginning in 2014, PPACA imposes an annual aggregate non-deductible tax of $8.0 billion (increasing incrementally to $14.3 billion by 2018) on health insurance premiums, including Medicare Advantage premiums. The Company’s share of the new tax each year will be based on our pro rata percentage of premiums compared to the industry as a whole. Although the delayed implementation of this tax will allow the Company to adjust its business model and to take into account the tax in designing future plan bids, there can be no assurance that such tax will not result in reduced plan benefits, reduced profits, or both. Fraud and Abuse Enforcement. PPACA includes provisions for increased fraud and abuse enforcement, including additional federal funding of $350 million over the next 10 years to fight healthcare fraud, waste, and abuse. In addition, PPACA expands the Recovery Audit Contractor, or RAC, program to include Medicare Advantage and PDP plans. Under the RAC program, CMS contracts with third-parties to conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper payments. A RAC audit of our Medicare Advantage plans or PDPs or any investigation related to fraud or abuse could result in increased costs for us to appeal or refund any alleged overpayments. It is difficult to predict with any reasonable certainty the impact on the Company of PPACA due to the law’s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges, and possible amendment. Implementation of PPACA, particularly those provisions expanding health insurance coverage, could be delayed or even blocked due to court challenges and efforts to repeal or amend the law. Court challenges and legislative efforts could also revise or eliminate all or portions of PPACA. More than 20 challenges to PPACA have been filed in federal courts. Some federal district courts have upheld the constitutionality of PPACA or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have found the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty to be unconstitutional and have either declared PPACA void in its entirety or left the remainder of the law intact. These lawsuits are subject to appeal and it is unclear how federal lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of PPACA will be resolved or what the effect will be on any resulting changes to the law. Reductions or Less Than Expected Increases in Funding for Medicare Programs Could Significantly Reduce Our Profitability. Medicare premiums, including premiums paid to our PDPs, account for substantially all of our revenue. As a consequence, our profitability is dependent on government funding levels for Medicare programs. As currently structured, the premium rates paid to Medicare health plans like ours are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories, and a member’s risk score. Funding for Medicare Advantage plans has been and may be altered by federal legislation. 24 Table of Contents Medicare currently compensates teaching hospitals for the graduate medical education costs incurred when treating Medicare beneficiaries by providing such hospitals with indirect medical education, or IME, payments. Under the Medicare fee-for-service program, IME is paid directly to a teaching hospital; however, under Part C, CMS also provides IME payments to Medicare Advantage organizations as part of the overall Medicare Advantage plan payment rate. MIPPA requires CMS to phase out IME payments to Medicare Advantage organizations. The phase out of IME payments to Medicare Advantage organizations was limited to no more than 0.6% per county in 2010, 1.2% per county in 2011, and 1.8% per county in 2012. Because of the gradual nature of the phase-out, we do not expect a material reduction in our PMPM premiums; it will, however, result in a decrease in our revenues derived from IME payments and may negatively impact our future profitability. Notwithstanding the reduction in premium rates, we believe our 2011 plans’ benefit designs will allow us to operate at levels near our historical MLR targets and profit margins. There can be no assurance, however, that the reduction in government capitation rates and our plans’ responses, including changes in benefit design, will not have a material adverse impact on our member growth expectations and profitability. CMS’s Risk Adjustment Payment System Makes Our Revenue and Profitability Difficult to Predict and Could Result In Material Retroactive Adjustments to Our Results of Operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish appropriate compensation for Medicare plans that enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS’s risk adjustment model bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnosis data from hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age, and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect, and report the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS, which information is subject to review and audit for accuracy by CMS. Because Medicare Advantage premiums are risk-based, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. CMS establishes premium payments to Medicare plans based on the plans’ approved bids at the beginning of the calendar year. Based on the members’ known demographic and risk information, CMS then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis to take into account additional member risk data. The first such adjustment updates the risk scores for the current year based on prior year’s dates of service. The second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. The Company accounts for estimates of such adjustments on a monthly basis. As a result of the variability of factors increasing plan risk scores that determine such estimations, the actual amount of CMS’s retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. Consequently, our estimate of our plans’ aggregate member risk scores for any period, and our accrual of premiums related thereto, may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. Our Records and Submissions to CMS May Contain Inaccurate or Unsupportable Information Regarding the Risk Adjustment Scores of Our Members, Which Could Cause Us to Overstate or Understate Our Revenue. We maintain claims and encounter data that support the risk adjustment scores of our members, which determine, in part, the revenue to which we are entitled for these members. This data is submitted to CMS by us based on medical charts and diagnosis codes prepared and submitted to us by providers of medical care. We generally rely on providers to appropriately document and support such risk-adjustment data in their medical records and appropriately code their claims. We also sometimes experience errors in information and data reporting systems relating to claims, encounters, and diagnoses. Inaccurate or unsupportable coding by medical providers, inaccurate records for new members in our plans, and erroneous claims and encounter recording and submissions could result in inaccurate premium revenue and risk adjustment payments, which are subject to correction or retroactive adjustment in later periods. Payments that we receive in connection with this corrected or adjusted information may be reflected in financial statements for periods subsequent to the period in which the revenue was recorded. We, or CMS through a medical records review and risk adjustment validation, may also find that data regarding our members’ risk scores, when reconciled, requires that we refund a portion of the revenue that we received, which refund, depending on its magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents In connection with CMS’s continuing statutory obligation to review risk score coding practices by Medicare Advantage plans, CMS announced that it would regularly audit Medicare Advantage plans, primarily targeted based on risk score growth, for compliance by the plans and their providers with proper coding practices (sometimes referred to as Risk Adjustment Data Validation Audits or RADV Audits). The Company’s Tennessee Medicare Advantage plan was selected by CMS for a RADV Audit of the 2006 risk adjustment data used to determine 2007 premium rates. In late 2009, the Company’s Tennessee plan received from CMS the RADV Audit member sample, which CMS will use to calculate a payment error rate for 2007 Tennessee plan premiums. In February 2010, the Company responded to the RADV Audit request by retrieving and submitting medical records supporting diagnoses codes and risk scores and, where appropriate, provider attestations. CMS has not indicated a schedule for processing or otherwise responding to the Company’s submissions. In December 2010, CMS published for public comment its proposed methodology for payment adjustments determined as a result of its various RADV Audits, including its methods for sampling, payment error calculation, and extrapolation of the error rate across the relevant plan population. Numerous comments challenging CMS’s methodologies were submitted to CMS by participants in the Medicare Advantage program, including the Company, in January 2011. It is unclear when and how CMS will respond to these comments and what form the RADV Audit methodologies, including extrapolation and payment error calculations, will ultimately take. Because of the uncertainty, the Company is currently unable to reasonably estimate the probability of CMS’s assertion of a claim for recoupment of overpaid Tennessee plan 2007 premiums or the amount of loss, or range of potential losses, associated with the pending RADV Audit of the Tennessee plan. There can be no assurance, however, that the conclusion of the Tennessee RADV Audit will not result in an adverse impact to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows (which may or may not be material), or that the Company’s other plans will not be randomly selected or targeted for a RADV Audit by CMS or, in the event that another plan is so selected, that the outcome of such RADV Audit will not result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. Statutory Authority for SNPs Could Expire and Federal Limitations on SNP Expansion and Other Recent Limitations on SNP Activities Could Adversely Impact our Growth Plans. We currently have approximately 80,000 members in our special needs plans, or SNPs, the substantial majority of which are enrolled in our dual-eligible SNPs. PPACA extended CMS’s authority to designate SNPs to December 31, 2013. Legislative authority for SNPs for dual-eligible beneficiaries that do not have a contract with a state Medicaid agency is extended through December 31, 2012, but such dual-eligible SNPs may not expand beyond their existing service areas. Failure to renew our SNP contracts could adversely impact our operating results. Legislative Changes to the Medicare Program Have Materially Impacted Our Operations and Increased Competition for Members. MMA substantially changed the Medicare program and modified how we operate our Medicare Advantage business. Many of these changes became effective in 2006. Although many of these changes are designed to benefit Medicare Advantage plans generally, certain provisions of the MMA increased competition and created challenges for us with respect to educating our existing and potential members about the changes MIPPA enacted in July 2008, added, among other things, restrictions on Medicare Advantage sales and marketing activities. Changes in the enrollment process mandated by PPACA also limit our ability to enroll new members. These and other legislative changes may create other substantial and potentially adverse risks including the following: Increased competition has and may continue to adversely affect our enrollment and results of operations. • MMA generally increased reimbursement rates for Medicare Advantage plans, which we believe resulted initially in an increase in the number of plans that participate in the Medicare program and created additional competition. In addition, as a result of Medicare Part D, a number of new competitors, such as pharmacy benefits managers and prescription drug retailers and wholesalers, established PDPs that compete with some of our Medicare programs. How reductions to Medicare Advantage payments and other changes required by PPACA will impact competition is unclear. 26 Table of Contents • Managed care companies began offering various new products beginning in 2006 pursuant to MMA, including PFFS plans and regional PPOs. Medicare PFFS plans and PPOs allow their members more flexibility in selecting providers outside of a designated network than Medicare Advantage HMOs such as ours allow, which typically require members to coordinate care through a primary care physician. MMA has encouraged the creation of regional PPOs through various incentives, including certain risk corridors, or cost-reimbursement provisions, a stabilization fund for incentive payments, and special payments to hospitals not otherwise contracted with a Medicare Advantage plan that treat regional plan enrollees. Although recent legislation limits the continuing viability of PFFS plans, particularly beginning in 2011, there can be no assurance that PFFS plans and regional Medicare PPOs in our service areas will not continue to adversely affect our Medicare Advantage plans’ relative attractiveness to existing and potential Medicare members. The limited annual enrollment process and additional marketing restrictions have limited our ability to market our products. Medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a Medicare Advantage plan rather than receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries are not permitted to change their Medicare benefits. The annual enrollment process and subsequent “lock-in” provisions of MMA and PPACA have restricted and may continue to restrict our growth because they limit our ability to enter new service areas and market to or enroll new members in our established service areas outside of the annual enrollment periods. PPACA will require a member who disenrolls in Medicare Advantage to enroll in traditional fee-for-service Medicare as opposed to enrolling in a different Medicare Advantage plan. MIPPA also restricted where and how our marketing activities may be conducted. For example, under MIPPA, prohibited marketing activities include providing meals, cash, gifts or monetary rebates, marketing in health care settings or at educational events, unsolicited methods of direct contact, and cross-selling. The competitive bidding process may adversely affect our profitability. Payments for local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may decrease the amount of premiums paid to us or cause us to increase the benefits we offer without a corresponding increase in premiums. As a result of the competitive bidding process, in order to maintain our current level of profitability we may be, and in some limited cases have been, required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. We derive a significant portion of our Medicare revenue from our PDP operations, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions, or other factors that adversely affect those operations could materially reduce our revenue and profits. In 2010, approximately 23.4% of our revenue was attributable to Medicare Part D premiums (MA-PD and PDP), up from 14.7% in 2006, the first year of Part D’s implementation. Failure to sustain our PDP operations’ profitability could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could adversely affect our PDP operations include: • Congress may make changes to the Medicare program, including changes to the Part D benefit. We cannot predict what these changes might include or what effect they might have on our revenue or medical expense or plans for growth. • We are making actuarial assumptions about the utilization of prescription drug benefits in our MA-PD plans and our PDPs and about member turnover and the timing of member enrollment into our PDP during the year. We cannot assure you that these assumptions will prove to be correct or that premiums will be sufficient to cover the benefits provided. 27 Table of Contents • Substantially all of our PDP membership is the result of CMS’s auto-assignment of dual-eligible beneficiaries in regions where our Part D premium bids are below CMS benchmarks. In general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding total PDP enrollment and the timing during the year thereof, utilization, drug costs, and other factors. For 2011, our PDP bids were below the relevant benchmarks, and therefore we retained existing membership and were qualified for auto assignment of new members, in 26 of the 34 CMS PDP regions. In addition, under CMS’s de minimis rules, our PDPs also retained existing membership in 4 of CMS’s regions. Our continued participation in the Part D program is conditional on our meeting certain contractual performance standards and otherwise complying with CMS regulations governing our operating compliance. If our future Part D premium bid is not below CMS’s thresholds, or if CMS determines we have not met contractual or regulatory performance standards, we risk losing PDP members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional PDP members auto-assigned to us. • Medicare beneficiaries who are dual-eligibles generally are able to disenroll and choose another PDP at any time, and certain Medicare beneficiaries also have a limited ability to disenroll from the plan they initially select and choose a different PDP. Medicare beneficiaries who are not dually eligible will be able to change PDPs during the annual open enrollment period. We may not be able to retain the auto-assigned members or those members who affirmatively choose our PDPs, and we may not be able to attract new PDP members. Financial accounting for the Medicare Part D benefits requires difficult estimates and assumptions. MMA provides for “risk corridors” that are designed to limit to some extent the gains or losses MA-PDs or PDPs would incur if their costs were lower or higher than those in the plans’ bids submitted to CMS. Currently, health plans bear all gains and losses of up to 5% of their expected costs and retain 50% of the gains or are reimbursed 50% of the loss between 5% and 10% and retain 20% of the gain or are reimbursed for 80% of the loss in excess of 10%. The accounting and regulatory guidance regarding the proper method of accounting for Medicare Part D, particularly as it relates to the timing of revenue and expense recognition, taken together with the complexity of the Part D product and the estimates related thereto, may lead to variability in our reporting of quarter-to-quarter earnings and to uncertainty among investors and research analysts following the Company as to the impacts of our Medicare Part D plans on our full year results. If We Are Required to Maintain Higher Statutory Capital Levels for Our Existing Operations or if We Are Subject to Additional Capital Reserve Requirements as We Pursue New Business Opportunities, Our Cash Flows and Liquidity May Be Adversely Affected. Our health plans are operated through HMO and regulated insurance subsidiaries in various states. These subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, or net worth, as defined by each state. One or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time. Other states have adopted risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which tend to be, although are not necessarily, higher than existing statutory capital requirements. Our Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Texas regulated subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements. The Texas accident and health insurance subsidiary, to which we transferred substantially all of our PDP operations in 2009, is subject to risk-based capital requirements in certain other jurisdictions in which it does business. Regardless whether the other states in which we operate adopt risk-based capital requirements, the state departments of insurance can require our HMO and regulated insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining additional statutory capital is in the best interests of our members. Any other changes in these requirements could materially increase our statutory capital requirements. In addition, as we continue to expand our plan offerings in new states or pursue new business opportunities, we may be required to maintain additional statutory capital. In any case, our available funds could be materially reduced, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. 28 Table of Contents If State Regulators Do Not Approve Payments, Including Dividends and Other Distributions, by Our Health Plans to Us, Our Business and Growth Strategy Could Be Materially Impaired or We Could Be Required to Incur Additional Indebtedness to Fund These Strategies. Our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions they can pay to us for purposes other than to pay income taxes related to the earnings of the health plans. These laws and regulations also limit the amount of management fees our health plan subsidiaries may pay to affiliates of our health plans, including our management subsidiaries, without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. The pre-approval and notice requirements vary from state to state. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving a dividend is not always clearly defined. Historically, we have not relied on dividends or other distributions from our health plans to fund a material amount of our operating cash or debt service requirements. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or to pay management and other fees to the affiliates of our health plan subsidiaries, however, the funds available to us would be limited, which could impair our ability to implement our business and growth strategy or service our indebtedness. Alternatively, we could be required to incur additional indebtedness to fund these strategies. Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws May Govern Our Business Operations, and Violation of Such Laws Could Result in Penalties and Adversely Affect Our Arrangements With Contractors and Our Profitability. In several states, we must comply with corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit a business corporation from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine, or exercising control over medical treatment decisions by physicians. In these states, typically only medical professionals or a professional corporation in which the shares are held by licensed physicians or other medical professionals may provide medical care to patients. In general, health maintenance organizations are exempt from laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine in many states due to the integrated nature of the delivery system. Many states also have some form of fee-splitting law, prohibiting certain business arrangements that involve the splitting or sharing of medical professional fees earned by a physician or another medical professional for the delivery of healthcare services. In general, we arrange for the provision of covered medical services in accordance with our benefit plans through a contracted health care delivery network. We also perform non-medical administrative and business services for physicians and physician groups. We do not represent that we provide medical services, and we do not exercise control over the practice of medical care by providers with whom we contract. We do, however, monitor medical services for clinical appropriateness to ensure they are provided in a high quality cost effective manner and reimbursed within the appropriate scope of licensure. In addition, we have developed close relationships with our network providers that include our review and monitoring of the coding of medical services provided by those providers. We also have compensation arrangements with providers that may be based on a percentage of certain provider fees and in certain cases our network providers have agreed to exclusivity arrangements. In each case, we believe we have structured these and other arrangements on a basis that complies with applicable state law, including the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting laws. Despite structuring these arrangements in ways that we believe comply with applicable law, regulatory authorities may assert that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that our contractual arrangements with providers constitute unlawful fee-splitting. Moreover, we cannot predict whether changes will be made to existing laws or whether new ones will be enacted, which could cause us to be out of compliance with these requirements. If our arrangements are found to violate corporate practice of medicine or fee-splitting laws, our provider or independent physician association management contracts could be found legally invalid and unenforceable, which could adversely affect our operations and profitability, and we could be subject to civil or, in some cases, criminal, penalties. 29 Table of Contents We Are Required to Comply With Laws Governing the Transmission, Security, and Privacy of Health Information That Require Significant Compliance Costs, and Any Failure to Comply With These Laws Could Result in Material Criminal and Civil Penalties. Regulations under HIPAA require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our Company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, business associates, and our members. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. ARRA broadened the scope of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations and ARRA increased the penalties for violations of HIPAA. Pursuant to ARRA, DHHS has published an interim final rule requiring covered entities to report breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected individuals following discovery of the breach by a covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to DHHS and, in certain situations involving large breaches, to the media. Various state laws and regulations may also require us to notify affected individuals in the event of a data breach involving individually identifiable information. HIPAA also provides that, to the extent that state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, such standards and laws are not preempted. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable privacy and security requirements. Given the recent changes to HIPAA, the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and, at times, conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with the HIPAA requirements cannot be guaranteed. Furthermore, a state’s ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance more difficult. In addition, other government agencies may from time to time promulgate rules relating to privacy and security with which we may be required to comply. To the extent that we are unable to support unique identifiers and electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, we may be subject to penalties and operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on our operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA could result in additional penalties. Risks Related to Our Business If Our Medicare Contracts Are Not Renewed or Are Terminated, Our Business Would Be Substantially Impaired. We provide services to our Medicare eligible members through our Medicare Advantage health plans and PDPs pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS. These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year. Each of our contracts with CMS is terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully rebid or compete for any of these contracts, or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business would be materially impaired. Because Our Premiums, Which Generate Most of Our Revenue, Are Established Primarily by Bid and Cannot Be Modified During the CMS Plan Year, Our Profitability Will Likely Be Reduced or We Could Cease to Be Profitable if We Are Unable to Manage Our Medical Expenses Effectively. Substantially all of our revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by CMS for our Medicare Advantage plans and PDPs. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for Medicare member health acuity, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under CMS’s annual contracts during the then-current terms. Relatively small changes in our MLR create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, or IBNR, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: • an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; • higher than expected utilization of healthcare services, particularly in-patient hospital services and out-patient professional settings, or unexpected utilization patterns and member turnover in our PDP operations; • periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; 30 Table of Contents • changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; • new mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; • new treatments and technologies; • consolidation of physician, hospital, and other provider groups; • contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers; and • the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, or acts of terrorism. Because of the relatively high average age of the Medicare population, medical expenses for our Medicare Advantage plans may be particularly difficult to control. We attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, preventive and wellness visits for members, information systems, and reinsurance. Despite our efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses, we may not be able to continue to manage these expenses effectively in the future. If our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. Our Failure to Estimate IBNR Claims Accurately Would Affect Our Reported Financial Results. Our medical care costs include estimates of our IBNR claims. We estimate our medical expense liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services, and other relevant factors. Actual conditions, however, could differ from those we assume in our estimation process. We continually review and update our estimation methods and the resulting accruals and make adjustments, if necessary, to medical expense when the criteria used to determine IBNR change and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. As a result of the uncertainties associated with the factors used in these assumptions, the actual amount of medical expense that we incur may be materially more or less than the amount of IBNR originally estimated. If our estimates of IBNR are inadequate in the future, our reported results of operations would be negatively impacted. Further, our inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. We May Be Unsuccessful in Implementing Our Growth Strategy If We Are Unable to Complete Acquisitions on Favorable Terms or Integrate the Businesses We Acquire into Our Existing Operations. Opportunistic acquisitions of contract rights and other health plans are an important element of our growth strategy. We may be unable to identify and complete appropriate acquisitions in a timely manner and in accordance with our or our investors’ expectations for future growth. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and may be willing to pay more for these businesses. In addition, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions, which may require a public hearing, regardless of whether we already operate a plan in the state in which the business to be acquired is located. We may be unable to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, some sellers may insist on selling assets that we may not want or transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us, or at all. To the extent we complete acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions with our existing businesses. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations; • new provider networks, which may operate on terms different from our existing networks; 31 Table of Contents • additional members, who may decide to transfer to other healthcare providers or health plans; • disparate information technology, claims processing, and record-keeping systems; and • actuarial and accounting policies, including those that require a high degree of judgment or complex estimation processes, including estimates of IBNR claims, estimates of risk adjustment payments, accounting for goodwill and, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters. In the event of an acquisition or investment, we may issue stock that would dilute existing stock ownership or incur additional debt that would restrict our cash flow. We may also assume known and unknown liabilities, not (or only partially) covered by acquisition agreement indemnification provisions, incur large and immediate write-offs, incur unanticipated costs, divert management’s attention from our existing business, experience risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, or lose key employees from the acquired entities. Additionally, with respect to the acquisition of Bravo Health on November 30, 2010, our specific integration and execution risks in addition to those outlined above include: • our inexperience in the Philadelphia and Mid-Atlantic Medicare Advantage markets; • our lack of familiarity with accreditation requirements and the regulatory environments in states in which Bravo Health’s plans operate; • our inexperience in particular with the STAR+PLUS program in Texas; • our understanding of Bravo Health’s regulatory compliance status and mitigating risks and liabilities associated therewith; • our ability to timely achieve anticipated cost savings through the identification and elimination of redundant personnel and systems or otherwise; and • our pre-acquisition review of Bravo Health’s operations, books, and records may have failed to adequately identify existing or potential risks and liabilities or our post-acquisition contractual indemnification protections, including amounts held in escrow, may be insufficient to cover such risks and liabilities. Bravo Health was selected for a RADV audit by the United States Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Inspector General, or OIG, in connection with risk-adjusted payments received by one of Bravo Health’s Medicare Advantage plans for contract year 2007. In June 2010, the OIG issued a draft report of its findings. The draft report included a recommendation that approximately $20.2 million of calculated premium overpayments be refunded to CMS. OIG’s purported premium overpayment was calculated by extrapolating the results of its audit sample and findings across the specific Medicare Advantage plan’s entire population for the 2007 contract year. Bravo Health issued a written response to the draft report and is vigorously challenging the OIG’s audit process, methodology, and preliminary findings and recommendations. No final report has been issued by OIG. OIG has no authority to recoup overpayments. Accordingly, it will be within the authority of CMS to determine what actions, if any, to take in response to any OIG audit findings and recommendations. In connection with the acquisition of Bravo Health, we established a $55.0 million escrow for purposes of satisfying the post-closing indemnification obligations of the former Bravo Health stockholders, if any, $23.0 million of which will be held for three years following closing with respect to certain specified claims, including the OIG RADV Audit. Consequently, although no assurances can be made, we do not expect the liability resulting from the OIG RADV Audit, if any, will have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the Company. 32 Table of Contents Our Substantial Debt Obligations Pursuant to Our Amended Credit Facilities Could Restrict Our Operations. In connection with and conditional on the acquisition of Bravo Health on November 30, 2010, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “Restated Credit Agreement”) providing for an aggregate of $550.0 million in term loans and a $175.0 million revolving credit facility. Borrowings of $380.0 million under the term facilities and $100.0 million of the revolving credit facility, together with our cash on hand, were used to fund the acquisition and expenses related thereto. As of December 31, 2010, $626.9 million of debt was outstanding under the Restated Credit Agreement, compared to $237.0 million of indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The Restated Credit Agreement contains conditions precedent to extensions of credit and representations, warranties, and covenants, including financial covenants, customary for transactions of this type. Financial covenants include (i) a maximum leverage ratio comparing total indebtedness to consolidated adjusted EBITDA, (ii) minimum net worth requirements for each regulated insurance subsidiary calculated by reference to applicable regulatory requirements, and (iii) maximum capital expenditures, in each case as more specifically provided in the Restated Credit Agreement. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences on us, including: • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to debt repayment, reducing our ability to use such cash flow to fund our operations, expenditures, and future business or acquisition opportunities. The Restated Credit Agreement contains customary events of default and, if we fail to comply with specified financial and operating ratios, we could be in breach of the Restated Credit Agreement. Any breach or default could allow our lenders to accelerate our indebtedness, charge a default interest rate, and terminate all commitments to extend additional credit. Our ability to maintain specified financial and operating ratios and operate within the contractual limitations can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy them. A Disruption in Our Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. Our operations and profitability are dependent, in large part, upon our ability to contract with healthcare providers and provider networks on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our members, or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some service areas, healthcare providers may have significant market positions. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts, or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then our ability to market products or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn or recession could negatively impact the financial condition of our providers, which could adversely affect our medical costs. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of membership and management fee revenue and in higher healthcare costs. 33 Table of Contents Our Texas operations comprised 23.3% of our Medicare Advantage members as of December 31, 2010 and 22.8% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. A significant proportion of our providers in our Texas market are affiliated with RPO, a large group of independent physician associations. As of December 31, 2010, physicians associated with RPO served as the primary care physicians for approximately 44.9% of our members in our Texas market. Our agreements with RPO generally have terms expiring December 31, 2014, but may be terminated sooner by RPO for cause or in connection with a change in control of the Company that results in the termination of senior management and otherwise raises a reasonable doubt as to our successor’s ability to perform under the agreements. If our agreement with RPO were terminated, we would be required to sign direct contracts with the RPO physicians or additional physicians in order to avoid a material disruption in care for our Houston-area members. It could take significant time to negotiate and execute direct contracts, and we would be forced to reassign members to new primary care physicians if all of the current primary care physicians did not sign direct contracts. This could result in loss of membership. Accordingly, any significant disruption in, or termination of, our relationship with RPO could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Moreover, RPO’s ability to terminate its agreements with us in connection with certain changes in control of the Company could have the effect of delaying or frustrating a potential acquisition or other change in control of the Company. As of December 31, 2010, our LMC Health Plans subsidiary comprised 12.2% of our Medicare Advantage membership and 17.3% of our total revenue for the year then ended. A substantial portion of the medical services provided to our LMC Health Plans’ members is provided by LMC pursuant to a long-term medical services agreement. Any material breach or other material non-performance by LMC of its obligations to us under the medical services agreement could result in a significant disruption in the medical services provided to our Florida plan members, for which we would have no immediately acceptable alternative service provider, and would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the medical services agreement could be terminated by LMC for cause or in connection with certain changes in control of the Florida plan. Noncompliance with the Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Could Expose Us to Liability, Reduce Our Revenue and Profitability, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Operations and Operating Results. The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits, and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses, and applicable laws and regulations, including RADV Audits by CMS and OIG. In addition, private citizens, acting as “whistleblowers,” are entitled to initiate enforcement actions under the federal False Claims Act. An adverse review, audit, or investigation could result in any of the following: • loss of our right to participate in the Medicare program; • loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an HMO or accident and health insurance company or to otherwise provide a service; • forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines, or other sanctions on us and our key employees; • damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; • increased restrictions on marketing our products and services; and • inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions, or acquisitions. From time to time, our health plans are subject to corrective action plans implemented by CMS to resolve identified compliance deficiencies. We take CMS compliance matters seriously and work diligently to implement corrective action plans and resolve deficiencies effectively and timely. We cannot assure you that any CMS-imposed corrective action plans currently existing or in the future will be resolved satisfactorily or that any such corrective action plan will not have a materially adverse impact on the conduct of our business or the results of our operations. PPACA expanded the RAC program to include Medicare Advantage and PDP plans by December 31, 2010. Under the RAC program, CMS contracts with third-parties to conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper payments in the Medicare program. We cannot assure you that the findings of a RAC audit or other audit or investigation of our business would not have an adverse effect on us or require substantial modifications to our operations. 34 Table of Contents Competition in Our Industry May Limit Our Ability to Attract or Retain Members, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment subject to significant changes as a result of business consolidations, evolving Medicare products, new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations that compete with us for members. Our principal competitors for contracts, members, and providers vary by local service area and have traditionally been comprised of national, regional, and local managed care organizations that serve Medicare recipients, including, among others, UnitedHealth Group, Humana, Inc., and Universal American Corporation. In addition, we have experienced significant competition from new competitors, including pharmacy benefit managers and prescription drug retailers and wholesalers, and our traditional managed care organization competitors. Many managed care companies and other Part D plan participants have greater financial and other resources, larger enrollments, broader ranges of products and benefits, broader geographical coverage, more established reputations in the national market and our markets, greater market share, larger contracting scale, and lower costs than us. Our failure to attract and retain members in our health plans as a result of such competition could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Inability to Maintain Our Medicare Advantage and PDP Members or Increase Our Membership Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. A reduction in the number of members in our Medicare Advantage and PDP plans, or the failure to increase our membership, could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to competition, factors that could contribute to the loss of, or failure to attract or retain, members include: • negative accreditation results or loss of licenses or contracts to offer Medicare Advantage plans; • negative publicity and news coverage relating to us or the managed healthcare industry generally; • litigation or threats of litigation against us; and • our inability to market to and re-enroll members who enroll with our competitors because of annual enrollment and lock-in provisions. Delegated and Outsourced Service Providers May Make Mistakes and Subject Us to Financial Loss or Legal Liability. We delegate or outsource certain of the functions associated with the provision of managed care and management services, including claims processing related to the provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits. The service providers to whom we delegate or outsource these functions could inadvertently or incorrectly adjust, revise, omit, or transmit the data that we provide them in a manner that could create inaccuracies in our risk adjustment data, cause us to overstate or understate our revenue, cause us to authorize incorrect payment levels to providers and violate certain laws and regulations, such as HIPAA. The value of our investments is influenced by economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. Our investment portfolio is comprised of investments, consisting primarily of highly-liquid government and corporate debt securities, that are classified as held-to-maturity and available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we intend to sell the securities or determine it is not more-likely-than-not we will be required to sell the securities prior to their recovery. For both available-for-sale investments and held-to-maturity investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we intend to sell the securities or determine it is more-likely-than-not we will be required to sell the securities prior to their recovery, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value. 35 Table of Contents In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis using both quantitative and qualitative factors to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include, the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, changes in credit issuer ratings by ratings agencies, recommendations of investment advisors, and forecasts of economic, market, or industry trends. We also regularly evaluate our intent to sell, or requirement to sell individual securities prior to maturity or before the full cost can be recovered. Negative Publicity Regarding the Managed Healthcare Industry Generally or Us in Particular Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Business. Negative publicity regarding the managed healthcare industry generally, or the Medicare Advantage program or us in particular, may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations by: • requiring us to change our products and services; • increasing the regulatory, including compliance, burdens under which we operate; • adversely affecting our ability to market our products or services; or • adversely affecting our ability to attract and retain members. We Are Dependent Upon Our Executive Officers and the Loss of Any One or More of These Officers and Their Managed Care Expertise Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of Herbert A. Fritch, our Chief Executive Officer, and certain other senior executives who have been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. Although we believe we could replace any executive we lose, the loss of the leadership, knowledge, and experience of Mr. Fritch and our other executive officers could adversely affect our business. Moreover, replacing one or more of our executives may be difficult or may require an extended period of time. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. Claims Relating to Medical Malpractice and Other Litigation Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses. From time to time, we are party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, Congress and several states have considered or are considering legislation that would expressly permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. Of the states in which we currently operate, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Texas have enacted legislation relating to health plan liability for negligent treatment decisions and benefits coverage determinations. In addition, our network providers involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some of these providers may not have sufficient malpractice insurance. Although our network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a managed care organization should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. Similar to other managed care companies, we may also be subject to other claims of our members in the ordinary course of business, including claims of improper marketing practices by our independent and employee sales agents and claims arising out of decisions to deny or restrict reimbursement for services. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial expense in defending future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories may significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. 36 Table of Contents We maintain errors and omissions insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. Potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage and related reserves may be inadequate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. The Inability or Failure to Properly Maintain Effective and Secure Management Information Systems, Successfully Update or Expand Processing Capability, or Develop New Capabilities to Meet Our Business Needs Could Result in Operational Disruptions and Other Adverse Consequences. Our business depends significantly on effective and secure information systems. The information gathered and processed by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, diagnosis capture and risk score submissions, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. These systems also support on-line customer service functions and provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analyses of medical expenses and outcomes data. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs and handle our expansion and growth. Any inability or failure to properly maintain management information systems or related disaster recovery programs, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs in a timely manner, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers or in implementing our growth strategies, disputes with customers and providers, civil or criminal penalties, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate reports, and other adverse consequences. To the extent a failure in maintaining effective information systems occurs, we may need to contract for these services with third-party management companies, which may be on less favorable terms to us and significantly disrupt our operations and information flow. Furthermore, our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, requirements to notify individuals, regulators and the public affected by the breach, litigation, possible liability, and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations and profitability would be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts, loss of members, and potential criminal and civil sanctions if they are not prevented. Anti-takeover Provisions in Our Organizational Documents and State Insurance Laws Could Make an Acquisition of Us More Difficult and May Prevent Attempts by Our Stockholders to Replace or Remove Our Current Management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management or similar change in control transaction, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices or that stockholders may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions provide, among other things, that: • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, by our chief executive officer, or by the board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the directors; 37 Table of Contents • any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; • actions taken by the written consent of our stockholders require the consent of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • our board of directors is classified into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; • our second amended and restated bylaws and certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to anti-takeover provisions may generally only be amended with the consent of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • directors may be removed other than at an annual meeting only for cause; • any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, may only be filled by the directors; and • our board of directors has the ability to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Additionally, the insurance company laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate restrict the ability of any person to acquire control of an insurance company, including an HMO, without prior regulatory approval. Under certain of those statutes and regulations, without such approval or an exemption therefrom, no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company, including an HMO, or an insurance holding company that controls a domestic insurance company or HMO, if as a result of such transaction such person would own more than a specified percentage, such as 5% or 10%, of the total stock issued and outstanding of such insurance company or HMO, or, in some cases, more than a specified percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of an insurance holding company. HealthSpring is an insurance holding company for purposes of these statutes and regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 