1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all information contained in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks or uncertainties described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. In any such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Industry Reductions or Less Than Expected Increases in Funding for Medicare Programs Could Significantly Reduce Our Profitability. Medicare premiums, including premiums paid to our PDP, accounted for approximately 94% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a consequence, our revenue and profitability are dependent on government funding levels for Medicare programs. The premium rates paid to Medicare health plans like ours are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories, and the plan’s risk scores. Some members of Congress have proposed significant cuts in payments to Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, continuing government efforts to contain healthcare related expenditures, including prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits or mandate additional benefits, and reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare, which in turn could reduce the number of beneficiaries enrolled in our health plans and our revenues and profitability. CMS’s Risk Adjustment Payment System and Budget Neutrality Factors Make Our Revenue and Profitability Difficult to Predict and Could Result In Material Retroactive Adjustments to Our Results of Operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for Medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS’s risk adjustment model bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age, and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect, and report the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS. As part of the phase-in, during 2003, risk adjusted payments accounted for 10% of Medicare health plan payments, with the remaining 90% being reimbursed in accordance with the traditional CMS demographic rate books. The portion of risk adjusted payments was increased to 30% in 2004, 50% in 2005, 75% in 2006, and 100% in 2007. Because 100% of Medical Advantage premiums are now risk-based, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. In addition, CMS establishes premium payments to Medicare plans generally at the beginning of the calendar year and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis. The first such adjustments updates the risk scores for the current year based on prior year’s dates of service. The second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. As of January 2008, the Company is estimating and recording on a monthly basis both such adjustments. As a result of the variability of factors, including plan risk scores, that determine such estimations, the actual amount of CMS’s retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. Consequently, our estimate of our plans’ risk scores for any period and our accrual of premiums related thereto, may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our Medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, our profitability. On February 22, 2008, CMS published preliminary results of a study designed to assess the degree of coding pattern differences between Medicare fee-for-service and Medicare Advantage and the extent to which any such differences could be appropriately addressed by an adjustment to risk scores. CMS’s study of risk scores for Medicare populations from 2004 through 2006 found that Medicare Advantage member risk scores increased substantially more than the risk scores for the general Medicare fee-for-service population. CMS acknowledged that this discrepancy could be explained by a number of reasons, including that beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans could be getting sicker faster than beneficiaries in Medicare fee-for-service. CMS’s study also tried to neutralize the impact of fee-for-service “joiners,” that were primarily new entrants to Medicare, and “leavers,” noting that high-risk decedents represented a larger component of fee-for-service than Medicare Advantage enrollees. Even focusing on “stayers” (CMS parlance for those persons who were enrolled either in the same Medicare Advantage plan or in Medicare fee-for-service during the study periods), CMS found that the overall risk scores of Medicare Advantage stayers increased more than those of fee-for-service stayers. Accordingly, CMS is considering a negative adjustment to the risk scores of enrollees, and a corresponding decrease in premiums, in Medicare Advantage plans for which the differences between a plan’s increase in risk scores and the increase in fee-for-service risk scores was two or more times the industry average. The company is in the early stages of evaluating the CMS study and its potential impact on the company’s Medicare Advantage plans and, until CMS releases more information, the company will not be able to determine whether any of its plans will be subject to a negative adjustment in premiums. CMS’s final recommendations are expected in early April 2008. If any of the company’s plans are subject to a risk score adjustment, such adjustment, depending on its size, could have an adverse impact on the affected plan’s results of the operations. 19 Table of Contents Payments to Medicare Advantage plans are also adjusted by a “budget neutrality” factor that was implemented in 2003 by Congress and CMS to prevent health plan payments from being reduced overall while, at the same time, directing risk adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment favorably impacted payments to Medicare Advantage plans. In February 2006, the President signed legislation that reduced federal funding for Medicare Advantage plans by approximately $6.5 billion over five years. Among other changes, the legislation provided for an accelerated phase-out of budget neutrality for risk adjusted payments made to Medicare Advantage plans. These legislative changes have the effect of reducing payments to Medicare Advantage plans in general. Consequently, our plans’ premiums will be reduced over the phase-out period unless our risk scores increase in a manner sufficient, when considered together with inflation-related increases in rates, to offset the elimination of this adjustment. Although our plans’ risk scores have increased historically, there is no assurance that the increases will continue or, if they do, that they will be large enough to offset the elimination of this adjustment. Our Records May Contain Inaccurate Information Regarding the Risk Adjustment Scores of Our Members, Which Could Cause Us to Overstate or Understate Our Revenue. We maintain claims and encounter data that support the risk adjustment scores of our members, which determine, in part, the revenue to which we are entitled for these members. This data is submitted to our HMO subsidiaries based on medical charts and diagnosis codes prepared by providers of medical care. Inaccurate coding by medical providers and inaccurate records for new members in our plans could result in inaccurate premium revenue and risk adjustment payments, which is subject to correction or update in later periods. Payments that we receive in connection with this corrected or updated information may be reflected in financial statements for periods subsequent to the period in which the revenue was earned. We may also find that our data regarding our members’ risk adjustment scores, when reconciled, requires that we refund a portion of the revenue that we received. A Recent Federal Moratorium Could Reduce the Profitability of our SNP’s, and the Statutory Authority for SNP’s Could Expire. The United States Congress and President have recently enacted legislation that prohibits CMS from designating additional SNP’s and that prohibits existing SNP’s from enrolling individuals outside of the SNP’s existing geographic areas through December 31, 2009. These restrictions could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, under current law, CMS’s authority to designate SNP’s expires on December 31, 2009. Unless Congress and the President act to change this law, CMS may not be able to renew our SNP contracts after December 31, 2009. Failure to renew our SNP contracts could adversely impact our operating results. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 Made Changes to the Medicare Program That Materially Impacted Our Operations and Increased Competition for Members. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, substantially changed the Medicare program and modified how we operate our Medicare Advantage business. Many of these changes became effective in 2006. Although many of these changes are designed to benefit Medicare Advantage plans generally, certain provisions of the MMA increased competition, created challenges for us with respect to educating our existing and potential members about the changes, and may create other substantial and potentially adverse risks, including the following: Increased competition could adversely affect our enrollment and results of operations. • The MMA increased reimbursement rates for Medicare Advantage plans, which we believe has increased the number of plans that participate in the Medicare program and created additional competition. In addition, as a result of Medicare Part D, a number of new competitors, such as pharmacy benefits managers and prescription drug retailers and wholesalers, have established PDPs that compete with some of our Medicare programs. • Managed care companies began offering various new products beginning in 2006 pursuant to the MMA, including private fee-for-service, or PFFS plans and regional preferred provider organizations, or PPOs. Medicare PFFS plans and PPOs allow their members more flexibility in selecting providers outside of a designated network than Medicare Advantage HMOs such as ours allow, which typically require members to coordinate care through a primary care physician. The MMA has encouraged the creation of regional PPOs through various incentives, including certain risk corridors, or cost-reimbursement provisions, a stabilization fund for incentive payments, and special payments to hospitals not otherwise contracted with a Medicare Advantage plan that treat regional plan enrollees. There can be no assurance that PFFS plans and regional Medicare PPOs in our service areas will not continue to adversely affect our Medicare Advantage plans’ relative attractiveness to existing and potential Medicare members. 20 Table of Contents The limited annual enrollment process has limited our ability to market our products. Medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a Medicare Advantage plan rather than receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. After the annual enrollment period, most Medicare beneficiaries are not permitted to change their Medicare benefits. The annual enrollment process and subsequent “lock-in” provisions of the MMA have restricted our growth as they have limited our ability to enter new service areas and market to or enroll new members in our established service areas outside of the annual enrollment periods. The competitive bidding process may adversely affect our profitability. Payments for local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may decrease the amount of premiums paid to us or cause us to increase the benefits we offer without a corresponding increase in premiums. As a result of the competitive bidding process, in order to maintain our current level of profitability we may be, and in some limited cases have been, required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. We derive a significant portion of our Medicare revenue from our PDP operations, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions, or other factors that adversely affect those operations could materially reduce our revenue and profits. We may be unable to sustain our PDP operation’s profitability over the long-term, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that could adversely affect our PDP operations include: • Congress may make changes to the Medicare program, including changes to the Part D benefit. We cannot predict what these changes might include or what effect they might have on our revenue or medical expense or plans for growth. • We are making actuarial assumptions about the utilization of prescription drug benefits in our MA-PD plans and our PDPs. We cannot assure you that these assumptions will prove to be correct or that premiums will be sufficient to cover the benefits provided. • Substantially all of our PDP membership is the result of CMS’s auto-assignment of dual-eligible beneficiaries in regions where our Part D premium bids are below CMS benchmarks. In general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding PDP enrollment, utilization, drug costs, and other factors. For 2008, our bid was below the benchmark in 31 of the 34 CMS regions. Our continued participation in the Part D program is conditional on our meeting certain contractual performance standards and otherwise complying with CMS regulations governing our operating compliance. If our future Part D premium bid is not below CMS’s threshold, or if CMS determines we have not met contractual or regulatory performance standards, we risk losing PDP members who were previously assigned to us and we will not have additional PDP members auto-assigned to us. • Medicare beneficiaries who are dual-eligibles generally are able to disenroll and choose another PDP at any time, and certain Medicare beneficiaries also have a limited ability to disenroll from the plan they initially select and choose a different PDP. Medicare beneficiaries who are not dually eligible will be able to change PDPs during the annual open enrollment period. We may not be able to retain the auto-assigned members or those members who affirmatively choose our PDPs, and we may not be able to attract new PDP members. • In February 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives’ Committee on Oversight and Government Reform sent a letter to a number of Medicare plans requesting copies of information submitted by the 21 Table of Contents plans to CMS relating to, among other things, Part D plan profits and administrative costs; discounts, rebates, and other price concessions from drug manufacturers and pharmacies; and concessions passed through to beneficiaries. Although we did not receive a similar letter, we expect it is a precursor to hearings and further congressional investigation into Part D related profits, and perhaps into the profitability of Medicare managed care plans, generally. Financial accounting for the Medicare Part D benefits is complex and requires difficult estimates and assumptions. • The MMA provides for “risk corridors” that are designed to limit to some extent the gains or losses MA-PDs or PDPs would incur if their costs turned out to be lower or higher than those in the plans’ bids submitted to CMS. For 2006 and 2007, drug plans bore all gains and losses up to 2.5% of their expected costs, but retained 25% of the gain or were reimbursed for 25% of the loss between 2.5% and 5%, and 20% of gains and losses in excess of 5%. The company will settle with CMS on amounts related to the risk corridor adjustments and prepaid subsidies in 2008 as part of a final settlement of Part D payments for the 2007 plan year. In 2008, health plans assume a greater amount of risk pursuant to the risk corridors. In 2008, Medicare drug plans will bear all gains and losses of up to 5% of their expected costs and will retain 50% of the gains or be reimbursed 50% of the loss between 5% and 10% and will retain 20% of the gain or be reimbursed 20% of the loss in excess of 10%. • The accounting and regulatory guidance regarding the proper method of accounting for Medicare Part D, particularly as it relates to the timing of revenue and expense recognition, taken together with the complexity of the Part D product and the estimates related thereto, may lead to variability in our reporting of quarter-to-quarter earnings and to uncertainty among investors and research analysts following the company as to the impacts of our Medicare Part D plans on our full year results. Our Business Activities Are Highly Regulated and New and Proposed Government Regulation or Legislative Reforms Could Increase Our Cost of Doing Business, and Reduce Our Membership, Profitability, and Liquidity. Our health plans are subject to substantial federal and state regulation. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our contracts and licenses, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers, and the public. Healthcare laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could adversely affect our business by, among other things: • imposing additional license, registration, or capital reserve requirements; • increasing our administrative and other costs; • reducing the premiums we receive from CMS; • forcing us to undergo a corporate restructuring; • increasing mandated benefits without corresponding premium increases; • limiting our ability to engage in inter-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; • forcing us to restructure our relationships with providers; and • requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. It is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of existing and future laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the Medicare program and to continue to serve our members and attract new members. 22 Table of Contents If We Are Required to Maintain Higher Statutory Capital Levels for Our Existing Operations or if We Are Subject to Additional Capital Reserve Requirements as We Pursue New Business Opportunities, Our Cash Flows and Liquidity May Be Adversely Affected. Our health plans are operated through subsidiaries in various states. These subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, or net worth, as defined by each state. One or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time. Other states have adopted risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which tend to be, although are not necessarily, higher than existing statutory capital requirements. Currently, Texas is the only jurisdiction in which we operate that has adopted risk-based capital requirements. Regardless whether the other states in which we operate adopt risk-based capital requirements, the state departments of insurance can require our HMO subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining additional statutory capital is in the best interests of our members. Any other changes in these requirements could materially increase our statutory capital requirements. In addition, as we continue to expand our plan offerings in new states or pursue new business opportunities, we may be required to maintain additional statutory capital. For example, in connection with its order approving our acquisition of LMC Health Plans, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation has required LMC Health Plans to maintain until September 2010 at least 115% of the statutory surplus otherwise required by Florida law. In any case, our available funds could be materially reduced, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. If State Regulators Do Not Approve Payments, Including Dividends and Other Distributions, by Our Health Plans to Us, Our Business and Growth Strategy Could Be Materially Impaired or We Could Be Required to Incur Additional Indebtedness to Fund These Strategies. Our health plan subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions they can pay to us for purposes other than to pay income taxes related to the earnings of the health plans. These laws and regulations also limit the amount of management fees our health plan subsidiaries may pay to affiliates of our health plans, including our management subsidiaries, without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. The pre-approval and notice requirements vary from state to state with some states, such as Texas, generally allowing, subject to advance notice requirements, dividends to be declared, provided the HMO meets or exceeds the applicable deposit, net worth, and risk-based capital requirements. The discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving a dividend is not always clearly defined. Historically, we have not relied on dividends or other distributions from our health plans to fund a material amount of our operating cash requirements. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or to pay management and other fees to the affiliates of our health plan subsidiaries, however, the funds available to us would be limited, which could impair our ability to implement our business and growth strategy. Alternatively, we could be required to incur additional indebtedness to fund these strategies. Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws May Govern Our Business Operations, and Violation of Such Laws Could Result in Penalties and Adversely Affect Our Arrangements With Contractors and Our Profitability. In several states, we must comply with laws known as the corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit a business corporation from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine, or exercising control over medical treatment decisions by physicians. In these states, typically only medical professionals or a professional corporation in which the shares are held by licensed physicians or other medical professionals may provide medical care to patients. In general, health maintenance organizations are exempt from laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine in many states due to the integrated nature of the delivery system. Many states also have some form of fee-splitting law, prohibiting certain business arrangements that involve the splitting or sharing of medical professional fees earned by a physician or another medical professional for the delivery of healthcare services. In general, we perform only non-medical administrative and business services for physicians and physician groups. We do not represent that we offer medical services, and we do not exercise control over the practice of medical care by providers with whom we contract. We do, however, monitor medical services to ensure they are provided in a high quality cost effective manner and reimbursed within the appropriate scope of licensure. In addition, we have developed close relationships with our network providers that include our review and monitoring of the coding of medical services provided by those providers. We also have compensation arrangements with providers that may be based on a percentage of certain provider fees and in certain cases our network providers have agreed to exclusivity arrangements. In each case, we believe we have structured these and other arrangements on a basis that complies with applicable state law, including the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting laws. 23 Table of Contents Despite our structuring these arrangements in ways that we believe comply with applicable law, regulatory authorities may assert that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that our contractual arrangements with providers constitute unlawful fee-splitting. Moreover, we cannot predict whether changes will be made to existing laws or if new ones will be enacted, which could cause us to be out of compliance with these requirements. If our arrangements are found to violate corporate practice of medicine or fee-splitting laws, our provider or independent physician association management contracts could be found legally invalid and unenforceable, which could adversely affect our operations and profitability, and we could be subject to civil or, in some cases, criminal, penalties. We Are Required to Comply With Laws Governing the Transmission, Security and Privacy of Health Information That Require Significant Compliance Costs, and Any Failure to Comply With These Laws Could Result in Material Criminal and Civil Penalties. Regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, business associates, and our members. These regulations include standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. HIPAA also provides that to the extent that state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, a state seeks and receives an exception from the Department of Health and Human Services regarding certain state laws, or state laws concern certain specified areas, such state standards and laws are not preempted. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and, at times, conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with the HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Furthermore, a state’s ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance more difficult. To the extent that we are unable to support unique identifiers and electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, we may be subject to penalties and operations may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on our operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the regulations issued under HIPAA could result in additional penalties. Risks Related to Our Business If Our Medicare Contracts Are Not Renewed or Are Terminated, Our Business Would Be Substantially Impaired. We provide services to our Medicare eligible members through our Medicare Advantage health plans and PDP pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS. These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year. Each of our contracts with CMS is terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully rebid or compete for any of these contracts, or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business would be materially impaired. Because Our Premiums, Which Generate Most of Our Revenue, Are Established by Contract and Cannot Be Modified During the Contract Terms, Our Profitability Will Likely Be Reduced or We Could Cease to Be Profitable if We Are Unable to Manage Our Medical Expenses Effectively. Substantially all of our revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by contracts with CMS for our Medicare Advantage plans and PDP or by contracts with our commercial customers, all of which are typically renewable on an annual basis. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for Medicare member health acuity, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under these contracts during the then-current terms. As a result, our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of healthcare services. Relatively small changes in our MLR can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control 24 Table of Contents medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, or IBNR, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. Factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: • an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; • higher than expected utilization of healthcare services, particularly in-patient hospital services; • periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; • changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; • new mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; • new treatments and technologies; • consolidation of physician, hospital, and other provider groups; • contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers; and • the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, or acts of terrorism. Because of the relatively high average age of the Medicare population, medical expenses for our Medicare Advantage plans may be particularly difficult to control. We attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, preventive and wellness visits for members, information systems, and reinsurance. Despite our efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses, we may not be able to continue to manage these expenses effectively in the future. If our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. Our Failure to Estimate IBNR Claims Accurately Would Affect Our Reported Financial Results. Our medical care costs include estimates of our IBNR claims. We estimate our medical expense liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services, and other relevant factors. Actual conditions, however, could differ from those we assume in our estimation process. We continually review and update our estimation methods and the resulting accruals and make adjustments, if necessary, to medical expense when the criteria used to determine IBNR change and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. As a result of the uncertainties associated with the factors used in these assumptions, the actual amount of medical expense that we incur may be materially more or less than the amount of IBNR originally estimated. If our estimates of IBNR are inadequate in the future, our reported results of operations would be negatively impacted. Further, our inability to estimate IBNR accurately may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. Competition in Our Industry, Particularly New Sources of Competition Since the Implementation of Medicare Part D, May Limit Our Ability to Attract or Retain Members, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment subject to significant changes as a result of business consolidations, evolving Medicare products (including PDPs and PFFS plans), new strategic alliances, and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations that compete with us for members. Our principal competitors for contracts, members, and providers vary by local service area and have traditionally been comprised of national, regional, and local managed care organizations that serve Medicare recipients, including, among others, UnitedHealth Group, Humana, Inc., and Universal American Financial Corp. In addition, we have experienced significant competition from new competitors, including pharmacy benefit managers and prescription 25 Table of Contents drug retailers and wholesalers, and our traditional managed care organization competitors whose PFFS plans and stand-alone PDPs have been attracting our Medicare Advantage and PDP members. As a result of the foregoing factors, among others, we experienced disenrollments from our plans during 2007 that were comparable to 2006 but in both years were at rates higher than we previously experienced or anticipated. Many managed care companies and other new Part D plan participants have greater financial and other resources, larger enrollments, broader ranges of products and benefits, broader geographical coverage, more established reputations in the national market and our markets, greater market share, larger contracting scale, and lower costs than us. Our failure to attract and retain members in our health plans as a result of such competition could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Inability to Maintain Our Medicare Advantage and PDP Members or Increase Our Membership Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. A reduction in the number of members in our Medicare Advantage and PDP plans, or the failure to increase our membership, could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to competition, factors that could contribute to the loss of, or failure to attract and retain, members include: • negative accreditation results or loss of licenses or contracts to offer Medicare Advantage plans; • negative publicity and news coverage relating to us or the managed healthcare industry generally; • litigation or threats of litigation against us; • automatic disenrollment, whether intentional or inadvertent, as a result of members choosing a stand-alone PDP; and • our inability to market to and re-enroll members who enroll with our competitors because of the new annual enrollment and lock-in provisions under the MMA. A Disruption in Our Healthcare Provider Networks Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Operations and Profitability. Our operations and profitability are dependent, in part, upon our ability to contract with healthcare providers and provider networks on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our members, or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some service areas, healthcare providers may have significant market positions. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts, or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then our ability to market products or to be profitable in those service areas could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of membership or higher healthcare costs. Our Texas operations comprised 24% of our Medicare Advantage members and 24% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007 (assuming the revenue of LMC Health Plans had been included for all of 2007). A significant proportion of our providers in our Texas market are affiliated with RPO, a large group of independent physician associations. As of December 31, 2007, physicians associated with RPO served as the primary care physicians for approximately 77% of our members in our Texas market. Our agreements with RPO generally have a term expiring December 31, 2014, but may be terminated sooner by RPO for cause or in connection with a change in control of the company that results in the termination of senior management and otherwise raises a reasonable doubt as to our successor’s ability to perform the agreements. If our Texas HMO subsidiary’s agreement with RPO were terminated, we would be required to sign direct contracts with the RPO physicians or additional physicians in order to avoid a material disruption in care of our Houston-area members. It could take significant time to negotiate and execute direct contracts, and we would be forced to reassign members to new primary care physicians if all of the current primary care physicians did not sign direct contracts. This would result in loss of membership assuming that not all members would accept the reassignment to a new primary care physician. Accordingly, any significant disruption in, or termination of, our relationship with RPO could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Moreover, RPO’s ability to terminate its agreements with us in connection with certain changes in control of the company could have the effect of delaying or frustrating a potential acquisition or other change in control of the company. As of December 31, 2007, our LMC Health Plans subsidiary comprised 17% of our Medicare Advantage membership and 18% of our total revenue for the quarter then ended. A substantial portion of the medical services provided to our LMC Health Plans' members is provided by LMC pursuant to a long-term medical services agreement. Any material breach or other material non-performance by LMC of its obligations to us under the medical services agreement could result in a significant disruption in the medical services provided to our Florida plan members, for which we would have no immediately acceptable alternative service provider, and which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the medical services agreement could be terminated by LMC for cause or in connection with certain changes in control of the Florida plan. 26 Table of Contents Outsourced Service Providers May Make Mistakes and Subject Us to Financial Loss or Legal Liability. We outsource certain of the functions associated with the provision of managed care and management services, including claims processing related to the provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits. The service providers to whom we outsource these functions could inadvertently or incorrectly adjust, revise, omit, or transmit the data with which we provide them in a manner that could create inaccuracies in our risk adjustment data, cause us to overstate or understate our revenue, cause us to authorize incorrect payment levels to members of our provider networks, or violate certain laws and regulations, such as HIPAA. We May Be Unsuccessful in Implementing Our Growth Strategy If We Are Unable to Complete Acquisitions on Favorable Terms or Integrate the Businesses We Acquire into Our Existing Operations, or If We Are Unable to Otherwise Expand into New Service Areas in a Timely Manner in Accordance with Our Strategic Plans. Opportunistic acquisitions of contract rights and other health plans are an important element of our growth strategy. We may be unable to identify and complete appropriate acquisitions in a timely manner and in accordance with our or our investors’ expectations for future growth. The market price of businesses that operate Medicare Advantage plans has generally increased recently, which may increase the amount we are required to pay to complete any future acquisitions. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and may be willing to pay more for these businesses. In addition, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions, which may require a public hearing, regardless whether we already operate a plan in the state in which the business to be acquired is located. We may be unable to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, some sellers may insist on selling assets that we may not want or transferring their liabilities to us as part of the sale of their companies or assets. Even if we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions on terms favorable to us, or at all. To the extent we complete acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions with our existing businesses. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations; • new provider networks, which may operate on terms different from our existing networks; • additional members, who may decide to transfer to other healthcare providers or health plans; • disparate information technology, claims processing, and record-keeping systems; and • accounting policies, including those that require a high degree of judgment or complex estimation processes, including estimates of IBNR claims, accounting for goodwill, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters. Additionally, with respect to the recently completed acquisition of LMC Health Plans, our integration and execution risks in addition to those outlined above include: • our inexperience in the highly penetrated and competitive South Florida Medicare Advantage market; • the ability of LMC to successfully operate and expand its medical clinics, and our ability to successfully operate and otherwise manage our anticipated growth under the terms of our long-term, exclusive, clinic-model medical services agreement with LMC; and • our inexperience in the operation of a clinic-model-dependent HMO generally. For all of the above reasons, we may not be able to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. Furthermore, in the event of an acquisition or investment, we may issue stock that would dilute existing stock ownership and incur debt that would restrict our cash flow, as we have in the acquisition of LMC Health Plans. We may also assume liabilities, incur large and immediate write-offs, 27 Table of Contents incur unanticipated costs, divert management’s attention from our existing business, experience risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, or lose key employees from the acquired entities. Our Substantial Debt Obligations Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement Could Restrict Our Operations. In connection with the acquisition of LMC Health Plans, we entered into a new credit facility (the “New Credit Agreement”). Borrowings of $300.0 million under the New Credit Agreement, together with our available cash on hand, were used to fund the acquisition and expenses related thereto. As of December 31, 2007, $296.25 million of debt was outstanding under the term loan facility of the New Credit Agreement. The $100.0 million revolving credit facility under the New Credit Agreement is currently undrawn. Loans under the New Credit Agreement are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all assets of the company and its non-HMO subsidiaries, including a pledge by the company and its non-HMO subsidiaries of all of the equity interests in each of their domestic subsidiaries. The New Credit Agreement contains conditions precedent to extensions of credit and representations, warranties, and covenants, including financial covenants, customary for transactions of this type. Financial covenants include (i) a maximum leverage ratio comparing total indebtedness to consolidated adjusted EBITDA, (ii) minimum net worth requirements for each HMO subsidiary calculated by reference to applicable regulatory requirements, and (iii) maximum capital expenditures, in each case as more specifically provided in the New Credit Agreement. This significant new indebtedness could have adverse consequences on us, including: • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to debt repayment, reducing our ability to use such cash flow to fund our operations, expenditures, and future business or acquisition opportunities. The New Credit Agreement contains customary events of default and, if we fail to comply with specified financial and operating ratios, we could be in breach of the New Credit Agreement. Any breach or default could allow our lenders to accelerate our indebtedness and terminate all commitments to extend additional credit. Our ability to maintain specified financial and operating ratios and operate within the contractual limitations can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will be able satisfy them. Negative Publicity Regarding the Managed Healthcare Industry Generally or Us in Particular Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Business. Negative publicity regarding the managed healthcare industry generally or us in particular may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations by: • requiring us to change our products and services; • increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate; • adversely affecting our ability to market our products or services; or • adversely affecting our ability to attract and retain members. We Are Dependent Upon Our Executive Officers and the Loss of Any One or More of These Officers and Their Managed Care Expertise Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of Herbert A. Fritch, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other senior executives who have been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. Although certain of our executives, including Mr. Fritch, have entered into employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for those executives to continue their employment with us. Although we believe we could replace any executive we lose, the loss of the leadership, knowledge, and experience of Mr. Fritch and our other executive officers could adversely affect our business. Moreover, replacing one or more of our executives may be difficult or may require an extended period of time. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. Violation of the Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Could Expose Us to Liability, Reduce Our Revenue and Profitability, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Operations and Operating Results. The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental reviews, audits, and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses, and applicable laws and regulations. An adverse review, audit, or investigation could result in any of the following: • loss of our right to participate in the Medicare program; 28 Table of Contents • loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an HMO or to otherwise provide a service; • forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines, or other sanctions on us and our key employees; • damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; • increased restrictions on marketing our products and services; and • inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions, or acquisitions. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, Office of Audit Services, or OIG, is conducting a national review of Medicare Advantage plans to determine whether they used payment increases consistent with the requirements of the MMA. Under the MMA, the bidding process requires that payment increases be used to cover increased medical costs, reduce beneficiary premiums or cost sharing, enhance benefits, put additional payment amounts in a benefit stabilization fund, or stabilize or enhance access. We cannot assure you that the findings of an audit or investigation of our business would not have an adverse effect on us or require substantial modifications to our operations. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, are entitled to bring enforcement actions under a special provision of the federal False Claims Act. Claims Relating to Medical Malpractice and Other Litigation Could Cause Us to Incur Significant Expenses. From time to time, we are party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, Congress and several states have considered or are considering legislation that would expressly permit managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations. Of the states in which we currently operate, only Texas has enacted legislation relating to health plan liability for negligent treatment decisions and benefits coverage determinations. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some of these providers do not have malpractice insurance. Although our network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a managed care organization should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, particularly where the provider does not have malpractice insurance, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. Similar to other managed care companies, we may also be subject to other claims of our members in the ordinary course of business, including claims of improper marketing practices by our independent and employee sales agents and claims arising out of decisions to deny or restrict reimbursement for services. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial expense in defending future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories may significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. Potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage and related reserves may be inadequate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. 29 Table of Contents The Inability or Failure to Properly Maintain Effective and Secure Management Information Systems, Successfully Update or Expand Processing Capability, or Develop New Capabilities to Meet Our Business Needs Could Result in Operational Disruptions and Other Adverse Consequences. Our business depends significantly on effective and secure information systems. The information gathered and processed by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. These systems also support on-line customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analyses of medical expenses and outcome data. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs and handle our expansion and growth. Any inability or failure to properly maintain management information systems or related disaster recovery programs, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs in a timely manner, could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers or in implementing our growth strategies, disputes with customers and providers, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate reports, and other adverse consequences. To the extent a failure in maintaining effective information systems occurs, we may need to contract for these services with third-party management companies, which may be on less favorable terms to us and significantly disrupt our operations and information flow. Furthermore, our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability, and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations and profitability would be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts, loss of members, and potential criminal and civil sanctions if they are not prevented. If We Are Unable to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting, Investors Could Lose Confidence in the Reliability of Our Financial Statements, Which Could Result in a Decrease in the Price of Our Common Stock. Because of our status as a public company, we are required to enhance and test our financial, internal, and management control systems to meet obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our financial and management control systems include corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and accounting systems. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and the audit opinion of the company’s independent registered accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our controls is first required in connection with our filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to maintain that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover Provisions in Our Organizational Documents and State Insurance Laws Could Make an Acquisition of Us More Difficult and May Prevent Attempts by Our Stockholders to Replace or Remove Our Current Management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management or similar change in control transaction, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices or that stockholders may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions provide, among other things, that: 30 Table of Contents • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, by our chief executive officer, or by the board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the directors; • any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; • actions taken by the written consent of our stockholders require the consent of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • our board of directors is classified into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors; • our second amended and restated bylaws and certain sections of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to anti-takeover provisions may generally only be amended with the consent of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding shares; • directors may be removed other than at an annual meeting only for cause; • any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, may only be filled by the directors; and • our board of directors has the ability to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Additionally, the insurance company laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate restrict the ability of any person to acquire control of an insurance company, including an HMO, without prior regulatory approval. Under certain of those statutes and regulations, without such approval or an exemption therefrom, no person may acquire any voting security of a domestic insurance company, including an HMO, or an insurance holding company that controls a domestic insurance company or HMO, if as a result of such transaction such person would own more than a specified percentage, such as 5% or 10%, of the total stock issued and outstanding of such insurance company or HMO, or, in some cases, more than a specified percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of an insurance holding company. HealthSpring is an insurance holding company for purposes of these statutes and regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 