Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our near-term success is dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, SILENORtm (doxepin hydrochloride). To date the majority of our resources have been focused on the development of our most advanced product candidate, SILENORtm, and the majority of our resources are now focused on seeking regulatory approval and preparing for commercialization of SILENORtm. Accordingly, any failure or significant delay in our SILENORtm program will have a substantial adverse impact on our business. There is no assurance that we will be granted regulatory approval for SILENORtm on a timely basis or at all. Although we have completed our clinical trials for SILENORtm, and submitted our NDA to the FDA for regulatory approval of this product candidate, the FDA has not yet determined whether to accept the NDA for filing. The FDA may request additional information rather than accepting the NDA for filing. Any delay in acceptance for filing of the NDA for SILENORtm will result in a delay in regulatory approval, if any, and in our ability to derive revenues from sales of the product, if any. If an NDA submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA to determine whether to approve the product candidate for commercial marketing for a specified indication. This process can take substantial time and require the expenditure of substantial and unanticipated resources. We have limited experience in filing and pursuing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approval, which may impede our ability to obtain such approvals. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA has ten months from the date of submission of the NDA in which to complete its review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the three months prior to the PDUFA goal date. If the FDA’s evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for a specified indication. If the FDA is not satisfied with the information in the NDA, the FDA may issue an approvable letter, which contains the conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval of the NDA. If and when those conditions have been met to the FDA’s satisfaction, the FDA will issue an approval letter. If the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA submission and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities is not favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA and issue a not approvable letter. The information included in the NDA for SILENORtm, including the data obtained from our non-clinical testing and clinical trials of this product candidate are susceptible to varying interpretations. The FDA’s interpretation of the information included in the SILENORtm NDA could cause the FDA to impose additional requirements on us as a condition to obtaining regulatory approval, or we may voluntarily undertake additional work if we feel it would be beneficial to support regulatory approval, in each case including additional non-clinical testing or clinical trials, analyses of previously-submitted non-clinical or clinical data, post-marketing studies and surveillance or other requirements. Any such additional requirements or work could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA could also review the information in the NDA for SILENORtm and refuse to approve the NDA. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of FDA regulatory review. For example, notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act over the last few years, certain 26 Table of Contents brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If these companies successfully challenge the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), the FDA may be required to change its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). This could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving our NDA for SILENORtm. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval will be obtained for SILENORtm. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing SILENORtm or limit its commercial use, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-clinical requirements requested by the FDA for SILENORtm could substantially delay any regulatory approval of this product candidate. The data from all of our clinical trials for SILENORtm was included in our NDA submission for SILENORtm. In addition, our NDA submission for SILENORtm included the results from several completed non-clinical studies that were required by the FDA, including our genotoxicity and reproductive toxicology studies and our 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study. The FDA requested that we conduct one additional non-clinical study, which is an ongoing two-year rat carcinogenicity study, and we intend to submit the results from this study as a post-approval commitment, subject to final approval by the FDA on whether to permit post-approval submission of such results. Our determinations regarding the timing of submission of our non-clinical study data for SILENORtm resulted from our previous interactions with the FDA. Based on a request in May 2006 from the FDA in connection with a planned pre-NDA meeting for SILENORtm, we initiated a non-clinical development program consisting of standard genotoxicity, reproductive toxicology and carcinogenicity studies. At that time, the FDA indicated that the data from the genotoxicity studies and reproductive toxicology studies should be included in the initial NDA submission for SILENORtm. The FDA also indicated that depending on the outcome of the genotoxicity studies, it may be flexible as to the timing of the conduct of the carcinogenicity studies, including the potential that the data from those studies may be submitted as a post-NDA approval commitment. In September 2006, we completed the genotoxicity studies, and no signal indicative of genotoxicity was found in any of the assays. We submitted the results to the FDA, and in February 2007, the FDA agreed with our assessment that SILENORtm does not appear to have genotoxic potential. The FDA indicated that, unless other non-clinical data raise a concern, a complete assessment of the carcinogenic potential of SILENORtm may not be needed prior to NDA approval. The FDA also indicated that it may accept the results of a shorter-term carcinogenicity study for approval of the NDA and allow the standard two-year carcinogenicity study to be completed as a post-approval commitment. In May 2007, we received correspondence from the FDA in which the FDA stated that the results of our 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study of SILENORtm should be included as part of the initial NDA submission for SILENORtm. Our recently submitted NDA for SILENORtm included the results from this study. As with any other non-clinical data, our non-clinical study results for SILENORtm are subject to varying interpretations, and any resulting toxicology questions from the FDA could adversely affect our potential regulatory approval or product labeling or lead to additional studies. If the FDA requires us to submit additional non-clinical data, including the data from our ongoing two-year rat carcinogenicity study, as a condition to acceptance for filing or approval of the NDA for SILENORtm, significant delays in the approval of the NDA, if any, would result, and we may incur additional costs. Although we are pursuing discussions with other companies to facilitate the commercialization of SILENORtm, we may be unable to complete a collaboration or other strategic transaction on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if SILENORtm receives FDA approval, it may never be successfully commercialized. We believe that the commercial success of SILENORtm will largely depend on gaining access to the highest prescribing physicians of insomnia treatments. IMS Health data indicates that psychiatrists, neurologists and sleep specialists represent a significant percentage of the top decile of prescribers of insomnia treatments. Primary care physicians are also very important, given that this group wrote more than 60% of the prescriptions for insomnia during 2006, according to 27 Table of Contents data from IMS Health. With this in mind, we are in discussions with a number of other companies to optimize the commercial success of SILENORtm. The outcome of this process could vary depending on the interest and objectives of the parties and may include a licensing or co-promotion transaction relating to SILENORtm, an acquisition of our business relating to SILENORtm, or a transaction to acquire our company as a whole. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete any strategic transaction, or that, if completed, any strategic transaction will be successful or on attractive terms. We are also conducting market preparation activities to prepare for the launch of SILENORtm. We also intend to prepare to co-promote or market SILENORtm to specialists and high-prescribing physicians of insomnia treatments. If we are unable to complete a strategic collaboration that represents appropriate value to our stockholders, we may have to develop a commercial organization that is sufficient to effectively market SILENORtm ourselves. This would require substantial resources and could adversely affect the timing and results of a commercial launch of the product. Even though a number of our employees have been involved in the successful launch of new pharmaceutical products, as a company, we have no commercial infrastructure and limited commercial experience. We have not commercialized any products, and may be unable to successfully do so. We also face competition in our search for parties with whom we may enter into a collaboration or other strategic transaction. These competitors may have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying, evaluating and consummating strategic transactions. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential collaborations or other strategic transactions that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. If we are able to complete a strategic transaction, depending on the timing of the transaction and the outlook of our partner or acquirer, such partner or acquirer could modify our current plans for seeking regulatory approval for and commercializing SILENORtm. Such modifications could result in additional costs or delays in acceptance for filing or approval of the NDA for SILENORtm and any commercial launch of the product. The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering SILENORtm are limited to certain low-dosage strengths in the United States, and our market opportunity for this product candidate may be limited by the lack of patent protection for higher dosage strengths and the lack of patent protection in other territories. Although we have an exclusive, worldwide license for SILENORtm for the treatment of insomnia through the life of the last patent to expire, which is expected to occur in 2020, we do not have patent protection for SILENORtm in any jurisdiction outside the United States. In addition, although our in-licensed patent for the treatment of transient insomnia is scheduled to expire in 2020, our in-licensed patent for the treatment of chronic insomnia is scheduled to expire in March 2013. Accordingly, in the absence of additional patents or other alternatives to obtain additional exclusivity rights for SILENORtm, a competitor could attempt to market doxepin for a chronic insomnia indication as early as March 2013. Furthermore, the patent protection in the United States for SILENORtm for the treatment of insomnia is limited to dosages ranging from a lower limit of 0.5 mg to various upper limits up to 20 mg of the active ingredient, doxepin. Doxepin is prescribed at dosages ranging from 75 mg to 300 mg daily for the treatment of depression and anxiety and is available in generic form in strengths as low as 10 mg in capsule form, as well as in a concentrated liquid form dispensed by a marked dropper and calibrated for 5 mg. As a result, we may face competition from the off-label use of these or other dosage forms of generic doxepin. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the FDA for one indication is prescribed by physicians for a different, unapproved indication. In addition, we do not have patent protection for SILENORtm in any jurisdiction outside the United States. Others may attempt to commercialize low-dose doxepin in the European Union, Canada, Mexico or other markets where we do not have patent protection for SILENORtm. Due to the lack of patent protection for doxepin in territories outside the United States and the potential for correspondingly lower prices for the drug in those markets, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire low-dose doxepin in those other territories. The off-label use of generic doxepin in the United States or the importation of doxepin from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for SILENORtm and adversely affect our overall business and financial results. We have submitted additional patent applications for SILENORtm but we cannot assure that these will result in issued patents or additional protection in the United States or other jurisdictions. 28 Table of Contents We expect intense competition in the insomnia marketplace for SILENORtm and any other product candidate that we develop, and new products may emerge that provide different and/or better therapeutic alternatives for the disorders that our product candidates are intended to treat. We are developing SILENORtm for the treatment of insomnia, which will compete with well established drugs for this indication, including: Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc.’s Ambien, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Sonata, and Sepracor Inc.’s Lunesta, all of which are GABA-receptor agonist, Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc.’s Rozerem, a melatonin receptor antagonist, and Sanofi-Synthélabo Inc.’s Ambien CR, a controlled-release formulation of the current GABA-receptor agonist, Ambien. An NDA for at least one other product, Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.’s indiplon, a GABA-receptor agonist, was submitted to the FDA in 2005. In May 2006, the FDA issued Neurocrine an approvable letter for indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg immediate release capsules and a not approvable letter for indiplon 15 mg extended release tablets. Neurocrine resubmitted its NDA for indiplon immediate release capsules, and in December 2007 the FDA issued Neurocrine an additional approvable letter. The implications for approval of indiplon or its time to market are unclear. An NDA submitted by NovaDel Pharma, Inc. for an oral mist formulation of zolpidem, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Ambien, for the treatment of insomnia has been accepted by the FDA, and Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced that it intends to submit an NDA in 2008 for a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed a Phase 3 transient insomnia clinical trial of VEC-162, a melatonin receptor agonist, and recently announced completion of enrollment of subjects in a Phase 3 chronic insomnia clinical trial. Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. has conducted a clinical study to evaluate the administration of a combination of Takeda’s product Rozeremtm and 3 mg of doxepin in patients with insomnia. We are unaware of the results of this trial. Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd. initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial of almorexant, an orexin antagonist, in December 2007 and has announced that it intends to initiate a second Phase 3 clinical trial of this product candidate in 2008. GlaxoSmithKline announced recently that it voluntarily suspended its Phase 2 clinical trial program of an orexin antagonist for the treatment of insomnia. Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has also announced that it plans to initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial program in 2008 for its product candidate APD125, a 5HT2 antagonist, and that it is also considering an additional Phase 2 clinical trial of this product candidate. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced that it has initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Sonata. Several other companies, including Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc., and Sepracor are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics. Additionally, several other companies are evaluating other compounds for the treatment of insomnia, including Neurogen Corporation, which is developing a GABA-receptor agonist and has announced plans to conduct a head-to-head Phase 2/3 clinical trial comparing its product candidate to Ambien CR. Furthermore, generic versions of Ambien have been launched and are priced significantly lower than approved, branded insomnia products. Sales of all of these drugs may reduce the available market for, and the price we are able to charge for, any product developed by us for this indication. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, will not render SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; 29 Table of Contents • regulatory experience; • experience conducting non-clinical studies and clinical trials, and related resources; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we can or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights or seek to invalidate or otherwise challenge our intellectual property rights, limiting our ability to develop or commercialize product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective and useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than we are in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, if we receive regulatory approvals for SILENORtm or any other product candidates we develop, manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently have no commercial manufacturing capability, sales force or marketing infrastructure. Restrictions on or challenges to our patent rights relating to our product candidates and limitations on or challenges to our other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for SILENORtm and any other product candidate we develop, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent rights that we have in-licensed relating to SILENORtm are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we receive regulatory approval to market this product candidate. In particular, we do not hold composition of matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of SILENORtm. Composition of matter patents on active pharmaceutical ingredients are a particularly effective form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. The principal patent protection that covers, or that we expect will cover, SILENORtm is method of use patents. This type of patent protects the product only when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for off-label indications that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may induce or contribute to the infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Because products with active ingredients identical to ours have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that these other products were never used off-label or studied in such a manner that such prior usage would not affect the validity of our method of use patents. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of one of the patents we have in-licensed covering SILENORtm, specifically U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment For Insomnia,” which claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg and expires in March 2013. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the USPTO issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise healthy patients and for patients with insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosages above 10 mg. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution 30 Table of Contents of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. We also have multiple internally developed pending patent applications. No assurance can be given that the USPTO or other applicable regulatory authorities will allow pending applications to result in issued patents with the claims we are seeking, or at all. Patent applications in the United States are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of the issued patents that we in-licensed were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or that the inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, third parties may challenge our in-licensed patents and any of our own patents that we may obtain, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims, or could attempt to develop products utilizing the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our products that do not infringe the claims of our in-licensed patents or patents that we may obtain. If a third party files an NDA for a product containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia at any time during which we have patents listed for SILENORtm in the FDA’s Orange Book publication, the applicant will be required to certify to the FDA concerning the listed patents. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for SILENORtm or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. If the applicant has provided a paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the paragraph IV certification to us once the NDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. We may then initiate a legal challenge to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of the notice automatically prevents the FDA from approving the Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. If we do not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the required 45-day period, the applicant’s NDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights is often very complex in nature, may be expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with us. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. For example, the label ultimately approved for SILENORtm, if any, may include a restriction on the length of a prescription for its use or the population for which it may be used, or may not include the indication statement we desire or may include a qualification to such statement. Any of these could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve market acceptance of SILENORtm and generate revenues from its sale. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, the FDA has directed manufacturers of all antidepressant drugs to revise their product labels to include a “black box” warning and expanded warning statements regarding an increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents and young adults being treated with these drugs. The active ingredient in SILENORtm, doxepin, is used in the treatment of depression and the package insert includes such a “black box” warning statement. Although SILENORtm is not intended to be indicated for or used in the treatment of depression and our proposed dosage for insomnia is less than one-tenth of that of doxepin for the treatment of depression, and although we have not evaluated and do not currently intend to seek regulatory approval for SILENORtm for the treatment of insomnia in children or adolescents, we cannot be sure that a similar warning statement will not be required. Recently the FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. It is unclear how and to what extent, if any, these requests and recommendations will affect SILENORtm. Further, although doxepin, at higher dosages than we plan to incorporate in SILENORtm, is not currently and has never been a Schedule IV controlled substance and the FDA has indicated in correspondence relating to our pre-NDA meeting for SILENORtm that it will not recommend that it be a Schedule IV controlled substance, we cannot be certain that SILENORtm will be a non-scheduled drug until the DEA completes its review. In our market research, physicians indicated that they limit their prescribing of Schedule IV controlled substances and that they would most likely increase their prescribing of insomnia medications if those medications were proven to be as effective as the market leading products without having the associated side effects or risk of addiction. SILENORtm and any other product candidate that we develop will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. We will need to obtain FDA approval of our proposed product name, SILENORtm, and any failure or delay associated with the approval may adversely impact any product launch and commercial prospects. The use of the name SILENORtm for our lead product candidate requires approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of the potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to our proposed product name, SILENORtm, we may be required to adopt an alternative name for this product candidate. If we adopt an alternative name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark application for SILENORtm and may be required to expend significant additional 32 Table of Contents resources in an effort to identify a suitable product name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize this product candidate. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, together with our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell SILENORtm or any other product candidates that we develop and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims that our products infringe the patent rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our product candidates and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If any of these intellectual property rights was found to cover our product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the intellectual property rights holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. Any of these 33 Table of Contents occurrences could delay or prevent us from commercializing SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop and generating resulting revenues from their sale, if any. In addition, the FDA may require, or we may decide to undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of SILENORtm. In addition, if SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale, if any. If any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sale will be limited. The commercial success of SILENORtm or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community and reimbursement of the product by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of any of approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling, including, for example, potential “black box” warnings associated with the active ingredient in SILENORtm; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of SILENORtm, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of insomnia or expected to be commercially launched in the future; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • off-label substitution by chemically similar or equivalent products; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop may require significant resources and may never be successful. 34 Table of Contents If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture SILENORtm, and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We have a contract with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. to manufacture our future required clinical supplies, if any, of SILENORtm, and we have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Patheon to manufacture our commercial supply of SILENORtm. We have contracted with and plan to enter into additional contracts with suppliers of some key raw materials for SILENORtm. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to launch SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, if approved, or provide any product candidates to patients in our clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial program and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at significant additional expense or terminate the clinical trials completely. Moreover, our manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulties related to their overall business and financial stability. For example, Patheon reported in connection with its financial statements for its fiscal year ended October 31, 2006 that its ability to continue as a going concern was uncertain and dependent upon the successful outcome of a review of strategic and financial alternatives. In April 2007, Patheon announced that it secured $150 million in financing through the sale of its preferred stock, and that it refinanced portions of its North American and United Kingdom credit facilities. Despite the additional financing, during 2007, Patheon announced that it would restructure its Canadian and Puerto Rican operations. Any material adverse impact on Patheon’s overall business and financial stability could result in a delay or interruption of our supply of SILENORtm. We do not have alternate manufacturing plans in place at this time. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of SILENORtm. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if our manufacturers failed to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including bulk drug substance, or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. In addition, all manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of our manufacturers’ facilities as part of their review of our marketing applications. If our manufacturers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval of our marketing applications. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our 35 Table of Contents manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Materials necessary to manufacture SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay development and commercialization. Although we have contracted with and plan to enter into additional contracts with suppliers of some key raw materials for SILENORtm, we largely rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the other materials necessary to produce our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our non-clinical studies or clinical trials of SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, product testing and potential regulatory approval would be delayed, significantly impacting our development programs. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, the commercial launch would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate sales revenues. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of product candidates by us in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to commercialize SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5 million annual aggregate coverage limit, and our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 36 Table of Contents We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop, could hinder or prevent our commercial success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit which became effective in January 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. Our ability to commercialize SILENORtm and any other product candidate that we develop successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices for SILENORtm and any other product candidate that we develop or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could harm our ability to market our products and significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2007, we had 35 full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our development activities relating to SILENORtm and any other product candidate that we develop. In addition, if we decide to co-promote SILENORtm with a strategic collaborator or to market SILENORtm ourselves, we will need to manage and fund our recruitment and training of sales and marketing personnel, building of other required commercial infrastructure, scale-up of manufacturing processes and other activities relating to the commercialization of SILENORtm. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage the FDA review process relating to our NDA for SILENORtm; • manage our internal development and commercialization efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. 37 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. Even if SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risks that SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of the product candidate and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. We have licensed SILENORtm and nalmefene from third parties. If we default on any of our obligations under those licenses, we could lose rights to these product candidates. We in-licensed rights to SILENORtm and nalmefene, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future. For instance, we acquired these product candidates through exclusive licensing arrangements. Under these licenses we are subject to commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach these license agreements, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. For example, our license agreement for SILENORtm requires us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the product candidate. To the extent we are unable to comply with these obligations, the license may be terminated, which would materially harm our business and financial condition. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Although we have successfully completed all of our planned four Phase 3 clinical trials for SILENORtm, we have not received regulatory approval to market SILENORtm in any jurisdiction. In addition, we have not completed all clinical trials for nalmefene. The results from clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results obtained in future clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. If SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop is not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, or if the FDA does not deem the product candidate to be sufficiently safe and effective to warrant marketing approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products may impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we are evaluating and will continue to seek to acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates. Because we neither have, nor currently intend to establish, internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, university scientists 38 Table of Contents and other researchers to sell or license products to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or produced profitably, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. If we acquire or in-license products and fail to successfully integrate them into our operations, we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our business. We are evaluating and will continue to seek to acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates that we believe may be a strategic fit with our business. Future acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, scientific, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development or commercialization objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to 39 Table of Contents implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management team or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, we have advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical, regulatory and commercialization strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development or commercialization of products that may compete with ours. We have relied on third parties to assist us with many of our development and regulatory activities, and we intend to continue to depend upon third parties to help us meet our future development, regulatory and commercialization needs. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We have extensively relied upon third parties to assist us with various activities relating to our development programs and the regulatory approval process, and we intend to continue to rely on third parties to help us with these activities. In addition, because we currently have no commercial infrastructure, we have and will continue to rely extensively on third parties in assisting us with commercialization activities relating to SILENORtm. This reliance is likely to accelerate as regulatory approval for SILENORtm, if any, is approached. If third parties we rely upon fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs, or if their performance is substandard or does not comply with applicable laws or regulations, it may delay or otherwise obstruct the approval of our NDA for SILENORtm or other product candidates we may develop and any resultant commercialization activities or product revenues. Moreover, these third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If third parties we have contracted with assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, specialty pharma or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We will require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts. We are a development stage company with no revenues, and our operations to date have generated substantial needs for cash. We expect our negative cash flows from operations to continue until we obtain regulatory approval for SILENORtm and are able to establish a collaboration or other strategic transaction with another pharmaceutical company to broaden the potential reach of sales and marketing efforts for SILENORtm and/or commercialize the product candidate ourselves. 40 Table of Contents The development and approval of SILENORtm as well as any development of internal sales and marketing capabilities, will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • the rate of progress and cost of our non-clinical studies, clinical trials and other development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue; • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing and other commercial capabilities, if required; • the extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2007, will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least 2008. We believe that these funds will allow us to finance our ongoing and planned development work and our planned NDA submission for SILENORtm, the activities required to facilitate the FDA review process for the NDA for SILENORtm and certain pre-marketing activities in preparation for the potential commercialization of SILENORtm. We intend to seek additional funding through collaborations or other strategic transactions and may seek additional funding through public or private sales of our equity securities. In addition, we may obtain equipment leases and may pursue opportunities to obtain debt financing. There can be no assurance, however, that additional equity or debt financing will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities. Raising additional funds by issuing securities, incurring debt, assigning receivables or royalty rights or through collaborations or other strategic transactions may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. Debt financing, receivables assignments and royalty interest assignments are often coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock, which could also result in dilution of our existing stockholders’ ownership. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations or other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We have never generated revenues or been profitable, and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development stage company and have not generated any revenues or been profitable since inception, and it is possible that we will not achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, $46.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $38.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant revenues, if any, or that we will ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be 41 Table of Contents adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of development programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to development of SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we develop; • our entering into collaborations; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory developments; and • commercialization activities relating to SILENORtm or any other product candidate that we may develop, or commercialization activities of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The use of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2007, we had generated federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $101.6 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $99.1 million, the majority of which were generated in California. We have generated federal research and development tax credits of $3.5 million and California research and development tax credits of $1.5 million. Both federal net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits have a 20 year carry forward period and begin to expire in 2023 and 2024, respectively. California net operating loss carryforwards have a ten year carry forward period and begin to expire in 2013. California research and development tax credits have no expiration. Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, annual use of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be limited in the event a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% occurs within a three-year period. We determined that such an ownership change occurred as of June 30, 2005 as a result of various stock issuances used to finance our development activities. This ownership change resulted in limitations on the utilization of tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We estimate that approximately $0.3 million of our California net operating loss carryforwards were effectively eliminated, resulting in a state net operating loss carryforward of $98.8 million after taking into account this eliminated amount. We also estimate that approximately $18.3 million of our federal net operating loss carry forwards, $17.3 million of our California net operating loss carryforwards, and $0.9 million of our federal research and development credits were subject to limitation. A portion of the limited net operating loss carryforwards becomes available for use each year. We estimate that approximately $2.8 million of the restricted net operating loss carryforwards become available each year between 2006 and 2010, decreasing to approximately $1.0 million thereafter. At December 31, 2007, we estimate that $11.4 million of our federal net operating loss carryforwards and $10.4 million of our state net operating loss carryforwards remain limited. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits generated subsequent to the ownership change are not subject to limitations. At December 31, 2007, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards generated after the ownership change and therefore not limited of approximately $83.4 million and $81.7 million, respectively. We also had research and development credits generated after the ownership change 42 Table of Contents and therefore not limited of approximately $2.6 million. These net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards could be subject to future limitations if additional ownership changes occur. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may have an impact on the value of our investment securities. Our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds, commercial paper and corporate and United States government agency notes. Recently, there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effect on various securities markets. While we do not believe that our investment securities have significant risk of default or illiquidity, we cannot provide absolute assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investments through impairment charges. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. In addition, certain of our directors, executive officers and large stockholders have established or may in the future establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock. If any of these events causes a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. There may not be a viable public market for our common stock, and market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in December 2005, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our initial public offering on December 15, 2005 through March 3, 2008, the trading prices for our common stock have ranged from a high of $21.24 to a low of $3.69. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the regulatory status of SILENORtm or any other product candidate we develop, including requirements to conduct or results or anticipated timing of our non-clinical studies and clinical trials; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; 43 Table of Contents • events affecting our existing in-license agreements and any future collaborations or other strategic transactions, commercial agreements and grants; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 3, 2008, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 66.4% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Investors may incur substantial dilution as a result of future equity issuances, and, as a result, our stock price could decline. We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least 2008. Because we will need to raise additional capital to fund our commercialization plans and development programs, among other things, we may conduct substantial additional equity offerings. These future equity issuances, together with the exercise of outstanding options and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions or incentive programs, will result in dilution to investors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or 44 Table of Contents remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We expend substantial costs and management resources as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements has caused us to expend substantial costs and management resources and will continue to do so. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board approved a new auditing standard, Auditing Standard No. 5 in June 2007, and at the same time, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance for management for complying with the requirements of Section 404. This new auditing standard and the related management guidance provide a more risk-based approach to compliance and testing under Section 404. However, we still expect to incur substantial costs and to devote significant resources to corporate governance matters. If we, or the third party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 