D. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in common stock of Quaterra Resources Inc. (the “Company” or Quaterra”) involves a high degree of risk. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell the Company’s common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this 20-F and in the Company’s other filings with securities regulatory authorities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the Company’s only ones. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Quaterra or that Quaterra currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on Quaterra, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed, which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Company may not have sufficient funds to complete further exploration programs. The Company does not generate operating revenue and must finance exploration activity by other means, such as raising funds through the sale of equity, debt, or property interests. The Company cannot provide any assurance that additional funding will be available for further exploration of the Company’s projects or to fulfill anticipated obligations under existing property agreements. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had working capital of $2,056,809, and, as of March 27, 2013, the Company has cash on hand of approximately $200,000. Although management is confident that it will be able to raise sufficient funds there is no assurance at the date these consolidated financial statements were approved that these financing initiatives will be successful. The lack of sufficient committed funding for the next 12 months indicates a material uncertainty, which casts substantial doubt over the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. These consolidated financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. - 9 - Management has planned levels of exploration spending on the Company’s properties with an expectation that future capital raises would provide the necessary funding, which includes equity financing, joint venture partners’ contributions, and/or realizing the carrying amount through the sale of mineral property interests. Future equity transactions could cause dilution of present and prospective shareholders. Historically, the Company has financed operations through private placements. In order to finance future operations and development efforts, the Company may raise funds through the issuance of common shares or the securities convertible into common shares through private placements or public offerings. The common shares in these financings often are sold at a discount to market prices, and the exercise price of the warrants sometimes is at or may be lower than market prices. The Company cannot predict the size of future issues of common shares or the issue of securities convertible into common shares or the effect, if any, that issues and sales of the Company’s common shares will have on the market price of its common shares. Any transaction involving the issue of common shares, or securities or convertible into common shares, could result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common shares, either at the time of the financing or subsequently when restrictions if any expire and the common shares are resold into the public markets. The Company has a history of losses and expects to incur losses for the foreseeable future. The Company has incurred losses during each of the prior five years in the amounts of $32,710,358. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $62,981,604. Quaterra expects to continue to incur losses unless and until such time as one or more of the properties enter into commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund the Company’s continuing operations. The Company’s exploration programs may not result in a commercial mining operation. Mineral exploration involves significant risk because few properties that are explored contain bodies of ore that would be commercially economic to develop into producing mines. Quaterra’s mineral properties are without a known body of commercial ore and the proposed programs are an exploratory search for ore. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current exploration programs will result in any commercial mining operation. If the exploration programs do not result in the discovery of commercial ore, the Company will be required to acquire additional properties and write-off all investments in existing properties. The Company does not have Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves. The Company has not established the presence of any Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves (as such terms are defined in NI 43-101 of the Canadian Securities Administrators); please refer to “Disclosure of Mineral Resources” in the Preliminary Notes to this annual report) at any of Quaterra’s mineral properties. The Company cannot provide any assurance that future feasibility studies will establish Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves at Quaterra’s properties. The failure to establish Proven Mineral Reserves or Probable Mineral Reserves could restrict the Company’s ability to successfully implement its strategies for long-term growth. Mineral resource estimates are subject to updates which may differ from prior estimates and adversely affect the value of the Company’s properties. The estimating of mineralization is a subjective process and the accuracy of estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data, the accuracy of statistical computations, and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any mineralization estimate, and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of mining a deposit may differ significantly from our estimates. From time to time, Quaterra obtains updated resource estimates and technical reports related to the Company’s mineral properties. The Company’s future business and financial condition are dependent upon resource prices. Resource prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years, and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. These include international economic and political trends, inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new and improved extraction and production methods. These factors may negatively affect the marketability of any ore or minerals discovered at, and extracted from, Quaterra’s properties. If, because of a sustained decline in prices, financing were not available to meet cash operating costs, the feasibility of continuing operations would be evaluated and if warranted, would be discontinued. - 10 - The Company’s common share price has been and may continue to be subject to volatility. U.S. and Canadian securities markets in recent years have experienced high levels of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experience wide fluctuation in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance underlying assets values or prospects of such companies. Factors unrelated to Quaterra’s financial performance or prospects include macroeconomic developments in North America and globally, and market perceptions of the attractiveness of particular industries. The Company’s share price, financial condition, and results of operations are all also likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in uranium, gold, silver and copper prices. Continual fluctuations in metal prices may occur. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of the Company’s shares at any given point in time may be subject to wide swings unrelated to any direct action by Quaterra’s operations. Some of the Company’s directors and officers may have conflicts of interest due to their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some the Company’s directors and officers are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies and these associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. As a result of these conflicts of interest, Quaterra may miss the opportunity to participate in certain transactions, which may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. The Company may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to grow Quaterra’s business. The Company is dependent on the services of key executives including the Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to the Company’s relatively small size, the loss of these persons or the Quaterra’s inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for activities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. The Company may be limited in its ability to manage growth. Should the Company be successful in its efforts to develop mineral properties or to raise capital for such development or for the development of other mining ventures, it may experience significant growth in operations. Any expansion of the Company’s business would place demands on management, operational capacity, and financial resources. The Company anticipates that it will need to recruit qualified personnel in all areas of operations. There can be no assurance that Quaterra will be effective in retaining current personnel or attracting and retaining additional qualified personnel, expanding operational capacity or otherwise managing growth. The failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental and other regulatory requirements may limit the Company’s operations and increase expenses. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental regulations promulgated by various Canadian, U.S., and Mexican government agencies. Claims and current and future operations will be governed by laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies such as ours that engage in exploration activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Issuance of permits for Quaterra’s exploration activities is subject to the discretion of government authorities, and the Company may be unable to obtain or maintain such permits. Permits required for future exploration or development may not be obtainable on reasonable terms or on a timely basis. Existing and possible future laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of exploration companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact and cause increases in capital expenditures or require abandonment or delays in exploration. The Company’s Arizona uranium claims are subject to a U.S. government order withdrawing new mining claims. On January 9, 2012, the U.S. Department of the Interior announced a Public Land Order to withdraw approximately one million acres of federal land for a twenty year period. The stated effect of the withdrawal order is to withdraw the acreage from new mining claims and sites under the 1872 Mining Law, subject to “valid existing rights” and does not prohibit previously approved uranium mining, or development of new projects that could be approved on claims and sites with “valid existing rights.” The withdrawal order affects all of the Company’s unpatented Arizona uranium claims on federal lands but does not affect future exploration or development on the Company’s 5.9 square miles of state leases in Arizona. Some of the Company’s mineral claims on federal lands may be excluded from the withdrawal order depending on how the U.S. Bureau of Land Management interprets and applies “valid existing rights.” The Company believes that its exploration and development efforts have enhanced several of claims to the point where they could be developed based upon existing rights. The Company has filed lawsuits against the U.S. Department of Interior and Bureau of Land Management challenging the withdrawal order. The withdrawal order also is subject to various litigation by third parties. Unless it is revoked or overturned, the withdrawal may inhibit the Company’s ability to implement its strategy for and adversely affect the value of the Arizona uranium claims. - 11 - Operating hazards associated with mining may expose the Company to liability. Mining operations generally involve a high degree of risk, including hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations. Operations in which the Company has an interest are subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of minerals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to or loss of life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage or loss. The Company currently does not maintain standard insurance policies on Quaterra’s properties. The Company may become subject to liability for cave-ins and other hazards for which cannot be fully insured or against which the Company may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to the Company’s perception of the relevant risks. For example, the Company is not currently covered by any form of political risk insurance or any form of environmental liability insurance. The payment of such insurance premiums and the incurring of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration activities. The Company’s properties may be subject to uncertain title. The acquisition of title to resource properties or interest therein is a very detailed and time consuming process. Title to and the area of resource concessions may be disputed. The Company has investigated title to all of its mineral properties and, to the best of the Company’s knowledge, title to all of Quaterra’s properties are in good standing. The properties may be subject to prior, and in some cases, not fully ascertainable unregistered agreements or transfers, and title may be affected by undetected defects. Title may be based upon interpretation of a country’s laws, which laws may be ambiguous, inconsistently applied and subject to reinterpretation or change. Enforcement of judgments or bringing actions outside the United States against the Company and its directors and officers may be difficult. Quaterra is organized under the law of and headquartered in British Columbia, Canada, and the majority of the Company’s directors and officers are not citizens or residents of the U.S. In addition, a substantial part of the Company’s assets are located outside the U.S. and Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to (a) enforce in courts outside the U.S. judgments against the Company and a majority of Quaterra’s directors and officers, obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or (b) bring in courts outside the U.S. an original action against the Company and its directors and officers to enforce liabilities based upon such U.S. securities laws. 