Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We have a limited operating history, have experienced net losses to date and may not be able to become profitable or generate positive cash flow in the future. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stage of development in a rapidly evolving industry. Digital Music Group, Inc. was formed in April 2005 and had no revenue producing operations until February 2006. We have experienced net losses of approximately $4.8 million from inception through December 31, 2006, and we have not yet been able to generate positive cash flow from operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to generate net income and positive cash flow from operations in the future. As a result of our limited operating history, we may fail to meet our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving nature of our industry make forecasting quarterly and annual operating results difficult. We may not be able to quickly reduce spending if our revenue is lower than we project. Any significant increase in our expenses or shortfall in our revenue would be detrimental to our business, operating results and financial condition and could cause our results of operation to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. As a result, you should not rely on our historical results as an indicator of our future performance. We have limited operating history in the acquisition, processing and distribution of digital video content and we may not be able to successfully acquire, process and market our video content. The approach we have taken to date in acquiring, processing and marketing music content may not work as well for video content. The distribution of digital video content through digital entertainment services is a relatively new extension of the digital entertainment marketplace. During the second half of 2006, we entered into our first long-term agreements to digitally distribute video content. Because this is a new area of the market for us and the industry, we may not be able to determine the proper valuation for the acquisition or licensing of digital rights to video content. We will be substantially dependent on digital entertainment services for the 14 Table of Contents distribution of our video content and we currently have only a limited number of such distribution agreements in place. If we are unable to enter into additional video distribution agreements on commercially favorable terms, this could limit our revenue. Additionally, our agreements with certain digital entertainment services are based on sharing advertising revenue associated with the video content we make available through such partners. Advertising-supported revenue models associated with the distribution of video content are evolving and there can be no assurances as to the potential revenue that we may receive under these models. In addition, our success in digitally distributing video content depends on the market demand for digital video recordings and our ability to acquire and offer for purchase or advertising-supported viewing, video content that appeals to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. We cannot accurately assess or control consumer demand for our digital video content. In addition, digital video distribution is in its infancy and technical requirements are evolving. The process for digitally encoding video content and packaging it for delivery to meet the technical requirements of our digital entertainment service partners is more complex, time consuming and costly than processing music content. The technical requirements continue to evolve and we may encounter unexpected difficulties in adapting our processes or in meeting the technical requirements of the digital entertainment services as they continue to be refined. If this is the case, we may have to make significant investments in our technology and operating cost structure to meet changing technical requirements. Any delay in processing and delivering video content to the digital entertainment services may cause delays in expected revenue growth and any significant changes to our current processing systems could increase our costs and delay or impede our ability to achieve a profit from the distribution of our video content. Additionally, based on our experience to-date, a number of our digital entertainment service partners have initially limited the amount and type of video content they will accept from us based on their capacity constraints and/or content selection criteria. If digital entertainment services continue to limit the types or amount of video content they will accept from us and we are unable to exploit all of the video content we have under contract, our future revenue potential could be significantly reduced and we may have to record write-downs of certain royalty advances made to secure long-term video license agreements. If the music content we provide to digital entertainment services does not appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences, our revenue will decrease. Our success depends on our ability to acquire and offer to consumers, music content that appeals to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Consumers’ tastes are subject to frequent, significant and sometimes unpredictable changes. We cannot accurately assess or control consumer demand for our music content. Our historical revenue is based on the number of music recordings available for purchase, which remained relatively small in numbers until late in 2006, and which overall have been available for only a short amount of time at the digital entertainment services. Seasonality and other trends have been difficult to assess from this limited historical data. In the future, our current music content and the additional music content we make available to consumers may not experience similar demand. Any reduction in the popularity of our music content with consumers will cause a reduction in our revenue. Our business involves identifying and locating the holders of digital rights to additional music and video content, and failure to do so will limit our revenue growth. Our goal is to continue to acquire digital rights to music and video content in order to increase our revenue. Ownership of music and video content is highly fragmented and not organized in a common marketplace. There is no registry or directory of the holders of content owners and finding them can be difficult and time-consuming. We currently rely on our network of relationships and market research to locate content owners. In the future, our ability to continue to identify and locate such content owners will have a significant impact on the amount of content we are able to acquire. Our inability to enter into agreements to acquire additional digital rights to music and video content on commercially favorable terms could impede our growth and increase our expenses. Our business is dependent on our ability to acquire digital rights to additional music and video content. Even if we are able to locate additional content owners, they may not be willing to sell or license their digital rights or 15 Table of Contents we may not be able to negotiate terms that are commercially favorable to us. While we believe that our experience and knowledge in the music industry and our operating history, and our reliance on consultants with expertise in the television and film video industries, allows us to determine commercially reasonable prices for music and video content, we may be unable to objectively determine fair market value for the digital rights to the content that we acquire because of unknown consumer demand for such content, unknown number of additional owners of digital rights to such content in certain cases and absence of independent valuations for music and video content. If content owners are unwilling to sell or license their rights on terms that we have determined are commercially favorable to us, we will not be able to substantially increase our revenue. We face competition from companies seeking to acquire the digital rights to music and video content, which could negatively impact our ability to acquire additional digital rights. The market for acquiring digital rights from content owners is competitive, especially for the distribution of music catalogs owned by independent labels. The number of commercialized music and video recordings available for acquisition is large, but limited, and many of the more desirable music recordings are already subject to digital distribution agreements or have been directly placed with digital entertainment services. We face competition in our pursuit to acquire additional content, which may reduce the amount of music and video content that we are able to acquire or license and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Our competitors may from time to time offer better terms of acquisition to content owners. Several of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to acquiring digital rights to music and video recordings. In addition, our competitors may form strategic alliances with record labels and digital entertainment services that could result in increased competition for the acquisition of music recordings, service offerings or favorable terms with the digital entertainment services. Increased competition for the acquisition of digital rights to music and video recordings may result in a reduction in our operating margins, market share and brand. We have entered into multi-year agreements for digital rights to music and video content and if we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially favorable terms once they expire, our revenue could materially decrease. Our long-term success depends upon, among other things, our ability to renew our non-perpetual rights to music and video content once they expire. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 35% of out music content was distributed under short-term distribution agreements that expire in one to three years depending on certain factors. We are aware that our competitors have approached a number of owners of content we have under short-term distribution agreements. If any of our competitors offer better terms, it could cause us to spend more money or grant better terms, or both, to renew the rights we currently hold. If we are unable to renew the non-perpetual rights to our music and video content on commercially favorable terms, our revenue could materially decrease. The digital music industry is evolving and we are vulnerable to discounting, price-reductions, pricing structure and stocking changes that may evolve in the industry and as a result, cause a reduction in our revenue. We receive revenue based on the wholesale prices determined by the digital music retailers based, to a large extent, on the price they charge to consumers. Currently, the largest digital music retailer, Apple iTunes, charges consumers $.99 per music recording downloaded in the United States and at a comparable rate in local currency for consumers outside the United States. We have limited ability to influence the pricing models of the digital entertainment services. While the major record labels were unsuccessful in their recent attempt to change the pricing structure, there is no assurance that they will not attempt to change the pricing structure in the future or that the digital music retailers will not initiate such a change that could result in lower pricing or tiered pricing that could reduce the amount of revenue we receive. In addition, the popularity of digital music retailers that offer digital music through subscription and other pricing models is increasing. For example, eMusic, a 16 Table of Contents subscription-based music service, is now the second largest digital music retailer in the world. The revenue we earn per individual music recording is generally less under these models than what we receive from Apple iTunes, although it should increase as more subscribers are added. Additionally, digital music services at present generally accept all the music content that we and other distributors deliver to them. However, if the digital music services in the future decide to limit the types or amount of music recordings they will accept from content owners and distributors like us, or limit the number of music recordings they will post for sale, or change their current stocking plans, for instance by removing music recordings that do not meet minimum sales thresholds or other criteria, our revenue could be significantly reduced. Other parties may have digital rights, or claim to have such rights, to our music content, which may result in duplicates of the music recordings we sell to be available for purchase at the digital music services and cause a reduction in our revenue. We generally acquire all of the digital rights that the owner of music content has available to grant; however, the holders of such rights may not possess exclusive rights to those music recordings. We are unable to determine the number of additional holders of rights to our music recordings. Aside from copyright law, the rights to music recordings are contractual in nature. There is no central registry that evidences the chain of title to the rights of music recordings other than copyright registration, which is voluntary. Given the age of many of the music recordings we have or may acquire, there is often a lack of documentation to evidence the chain of title of rights we acquire. In addition, there is a common practice in the music industry of licensing rights in various formats or in certain compilations and to grant the same rights to different parties for the same or different geographic regions. Our content acquisition agreements contain representations, warranties and indemnities only with respect to the digital rights granted to us and not with respect to the rights held by other parties. Because more than one party may have the right to sell the same music recording we have acquired, and we expect in the future to acquire, rights to multiple copies of the same music recording. In such instances, we become entitled to payment for download activity for both copies, to the extent they are both purchased by consumers at the digital music services. Additionally, we are aware of numerous instances where other parties have digital rights to the same music recordings to which we have digital rights. If copies of our music recordings are available at the digital music services from alternative sources, our revenue will be reduced to the extent these copies are purchased instead of ours. We may not receive legal title to the digital rights of music content that we have paid to acquire, and any determination that we do not hold such rights may subject us to damages for revenue received. Our acquisition and distribution agreements with content owners contain representations, warranties and indemnities with respect to the digital rights granted to us. In at least one instance, we purchased digital rights that were determined not to be held by the holder from whom we acquired those rights. If we were to acquire and make available for purchase music recordings from a person who did not actually own such rights and we were unable to enforce or collect on the representations, warranties and indemnities made by such person, our business would be adversely affected. We would lose the rights to sell such music and might be subject to copyright infringement lawsuits for selling such music recordings without the right to do so. Finally, it could materially impact our reputation with content owners and our relationships with digital music services, which could adversely affect our business. If content owners fail to deliver, or if there are long delays in the time it takes to receive the music and video content that we acquire rights to, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted and our cash flow will be affected adversely. Implementation of our business plan and growth strategy depends on increasing the amount of music and video content we have available to consumers at digital entertainment services. Our purchase and long-term distribution agreements typically require the owners to deliver to us their music and video content under an agreement delivery timetable. Under our short-term distribution agreements, there are no delivery terms. Some of 17 Table of Contents the content we acquire may be in older physical formats such as audio tape or vinyl records in the case of music recordings, or film, tape or other incompatible digital format in the case of video recordings, that require processing onto compact disc or digital video disc. In addition, our agreements require that certain descriptive information required by the digital entertainment services for each music and video be delivered with the content, such as recording title, album title, artist name, genre, copyright information, label name, unique product identifier, artwork, biographical information, sales information and date of release. Historically, it has at times taken several months or longer after we have entered into an agreement before we have received delivery of the music and video content acquired. In addition, in some cases the quality of the music and videos and metadata initially delivered is not sufficient or the data is not complete and follow-up work and effort is required to receive proper and complete delivery, although even with such extra efforts there are no assurances such problems can be cured. Although we generally specify delivery dates and make cash payments by us conditional upon delivery and inspection, we do not control the timing for complete receipt of the music and video content we have acquired. In certain cases, content owners have been unable to deliver all of the content under contract. While we were not required to make cash payments for the content that was not delivered, our revenue growth rate was negatively impacted. If there are long delays in the time it takes for the owners to deliver to us the music and video content in physical format or complete data format and the related complete descriptive information, it will delay our ability to begin the process of converting the content into the digital formats required by digital entertainment services. It could also cause inefficiencies in the utilization of our operations personnel who process these recordings. Any delay in making our music and video content available for purchase at the digital entertainment services will delay our revenue growth, and inefficiencies caused by such delays could cause a reduction in our cash flow in the interim. Any extended delay by digital entertainment services in processing and making our music and video content available to consumers causes a delay in our ability to earn revenue from such content. Following receipt of music and video content from the owners, we convert them into the specific digital formats required by digital entertainment services. We then deliver the music and video content in digital format, together with their associated descriptive information and artwork, to the digital entertainment services to be made available to consumers in the specific territories where we have acquired the digital rights. The digital entertainment services must then review our music and video content, descriptive information and artwork to ensure that they are in the proper format for their store or service. The content is only made available to consumers once the digital retailer or service has completed its review, encrypted the content with the particular retailer’s digital rights management protection and other retailer or service-specific coding, and posted the digital files on the retailer’s or service’s computer servers. We are subject to the digital entertainment services’ internal processing timing and priorities. Our agreements with the digital entertainment services do not provide for a fixed processing time. Our experience has been that the review and posting process takes several weeks to several months. Any extended delay in making our music and video content available to consumers causes a delay in when we can begin to earn revenue and return on investment from our content. Piracy is likely to continue to negatively impact our potential revenue. Our revenue comes from the sale of our digital content over the Internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks, which is subject to unauthorized consumer copying and widespread dissemination without an economic return to us. Global piracy is a significant threat to the entertainment industry generally and to us. Unauthorized copies and piracy have contributed to the decrease in the volume of legitimate sales of music and video content and have put pressure on the price of legitimate sales. We may need to raise additional capital to accomplish our objectives of acquiring additional digital rights to music and video content, and if we are unable to raise such money as needed our growth would be limited. We may use our common stock, in addition to our cash, for the consideration paid for future acquisitions of digital rights to additional music and video content. If our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market 18 Table of Contents value or content owners are unwilling to accept common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of the digital rights to their music and video content or their businesses or as consideration for licensed rights to their music and video content, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available. Although we currently anticipate that the proceeds from our February 2006 initial public offering of common stock, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for 2007, we may require additional financing in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our ability to acquire additional rights to music and video content could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. Using cash to finance acquisitions could substantially limit our financial flexibility and using debt could result in financial covenants that limit our operations and financial flexibility. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of Digital Rights Agency, LLC, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our costs of operations will increase even further if we are unable to successfully combine the acquired operations of DRA or integrate the systems and procedures, including accounting, financial reporting and information technology, or to realize the revenue and expense synergies we expect from the combined companies. Our pro forma combined financial results cover periods during which we were not under common control or management and, therefore, are not indicative of our future financial or operating results. Our failure to integrate DRA and obtain all the benefit of the content license agreements and employee and business relationships of DRA could impair our future revenue and results of operations. We may acquire record labels or other companies that own master rights to music or video content, and if we are unable to successfully acquire or integrate these companies, we may not be able to acquire additional content or grow our revenue. We may attempt to acquire record labels or other companies that own master rights to music or video content for purposes of acquiring their digital rights. If we are not able to successfully acquire such companies, we may not be able to acquire additional content or grow our revenue. In the event we are able to acquire other companies, we may be subject to a number of risks related to the integration and management of such companies, including failure to obtain valid consents to assignment of contracts, including contracts granting rights to music content, failure of the business of the acquired company to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, and failure to retain key personnel of the acquired company. In addition, if we undertake an acquisition of a company that owns digital and other rights to music and video content, we may attempt to operate the non-digital businesses or sell the non-digital rights to another person or entity, and we may not be able to do so in a manner or on terms favorable to us. We are substantially dependent on a limited number of digital entertainment services, in particular Apple iTunes, for the sale of our content. We derive our revenue from a small number of leading digital entertainment services that make our content available to consumers. We generally deliver our music and video content to these digital entertainment services in priority of their significance to us. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we received 77% and 87% of our revenue from Apple iTunes, respectively. Our agreements with Apple iTunes have terms of three years ending in April 2010 and DRA’s agreements with Apple iTunes expire in December 2008. If we are not able to continue to renew our relationships with Apple iTunes and other digital entertainment services that make our music and video content available to consumers on similar economic terms, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly reduced. 19 Table of Contents Our accounts receivable are concentrated with a limited number of digital entertainment services, particularly Apple iTunes, which subjects us to substantial payment risk. We rely on reports from digital entertainment services detailing download and other activity to determine our revenue, and such reports are typically provided to us within 30 to 45 days following the end of the reporting period. We receive payment at approximately the same time as we receive these detailed revenue reports. Our accounts receivable therefore consists of approximately one month’s revenue (or one quarter in the case of certain digital entertainment services that report quarterly). As of December 31, 2006, accounts receivable from Apple iTunes represented 51% of our total accounts receivable, compared to 83% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2005. The concentration of our accounts receivable among a small number of digital entertainment services is likely to continue and we expect our accounts receivable to become larger as we grow. While we have never had a bad debt loss since inception, if any of these digital entertainment services are unable to pay us as due each month (or quarter, as the case may be), it could disrupt our business and cause us to report a bad debt loss. If we are not able to scale our reporting and payment processes, we may experience delays providing reports to the content owners and paying required royalties that could have a negative effect on our brand identity. We receive regular sales reports from digital entertainment services that contain sales information for our music and video content. Based on these reports, we provide summary reports to the content owners. When we acquire the perpetual digital rights to music content and in certain of our distribution agreements, we may assume the obligations of the content owner to pay any required royalty payments to the artists according to the terms of the existing agreements. In addition, we may be required to pay statutory publishing royalties on behalf of the content owner according to the terms of our agreements. As we acquire digital rights to additional music and video content, we may experience difficulties in preparing and distributing sales reports for the content owners or processing and paying artist and publishing royalties in a timely fashion. If we are not able to successfully expand our processing capability or introduce technology to allow us to determine and pay royalty amounts due and automate these tasks, we may experience delays as we increase the volume of our music and video content, which could have a negative effect on our relationships with content owners and brand identity. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could cause a disruption in our relationships with the digital entertainment services and content owners. We depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, they may decide to terminate their employment or otherwise cease to be employed by us. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our personnel. In the past year, three of our founding officers have left or announced an intention to leave our Company. As we grow, our business will be dependent on our ability to recruit, employ and retain additional management and skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract other key personnel could disrupt and limit our ability to grow our business. We face a potential loss of music content if it is determined that recording artists have a right to recapture rights in their content under the U.S. Copyright Act. The U.S. Copyright Act provides authors and their heirs a right to terminate licenses or assignments of rights in their copyrighted works that were not “works made for hire”. If any of our music content were determined not to be “works made for hire”, then the recording artists or their heirs could have the right to terminate the rights we hold. These residual author rights generally survive for five years after the end of the 35-year period from the date of a post-1977 license or assignment, and in the case of a pre-1978 grant in a pre-1978 recording, five years after the end of the 56-year period from the date of creation or January 1, 1978, whichever is later. Any termination of our rights to our music content could have a material reduction in our revenue. 20 Table of Contents If the Internet and portable digital music and video players and mobile phones cease to be the medium accepted by the mass market for digital music and video content, our business could be affected adversely. Our success depends to a substantial extent on the willingness of consumers to increase their use of digital entertainment services as a method of purchasing music and video content or viewing ad-supported content. The use of the Internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks to select and download purchased music and video content is growing rapidly but is still evolving, and offering ad-supported video content is in its infancy. It is uncertain whether these markets will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. If the use of the Internet and wireless, cable and mobile networks to select and purchase music and video content or view ad-supported content does not gain in popularity and market acceptance, our business could be affected adversely. Much of our revenue is currently tied to the popularity of portable digital music players like the iPod by Apple Inc. and other digital music listening and video viewing devices. If the market penetration by these devices does not continue, the number of consumers purchasing digital music and video content may decrease or not grow, which could result in a reduction in our revenue. Our officers and directors and their affiliates exercise influence over us as stockholders. Our officers and directors and their immediate family members, as of March 26, 2007, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock. See our Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders for the individual beneficial ownership of our common stock held by our directors and officers. As a result of their shareholdings, these individuals will be able to exercise influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; and • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to the Delaware anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on this provision to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Our stock price is subject to fluctuation and could decline. The price at which our common stock has traded since our initial public offering in February 2006 has fluctuated significantly. The price is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • imbalances between the market supply and demand for shares of our stock due to the limited number of shares available in the public float; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; and • conditions and trends in online commerce industries, particularly in the digital entertainment services. 21 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market following the expiration during 2007 of lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering completed in February 2006 and compliance with Rule 144 holding periods may adversely affect the future market price of our common stock. Shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options granted to our employees and directors also may be sold in the public market. Such sales could create the perception to the public of difficulties or problems with our business. As a result, these sales might make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and price that we deem necessary or appropriate. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance for this type of litigation. However, if such litigation is directed at us, it could result in substantial costs, including the deductible amount under our insurance policy and other indirect costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that you will receive a return on your investment when you sell your shares or that you will not lose the entire amount of your investment. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are in the process of documenting and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on such controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the year ending December 31, 2007. Section 404 requires a reporting company to, among other things, annually review and disclose its internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate and disclose changes in its internal controls over financial reporting quarterly. We are currently performing the systems and process documentation, evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with the management certification requirements of Section 404. In the course of our ongoing evaluation, we may identify areas of our internal controls requiring improvement, and plan to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues that might be identified through this review. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our documentation, evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations and may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that the internal controls are or will be effective in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such conditions could adversely affect our results. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 