Item 1A Risk Factors 23 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 45 Item 2 Properties 46 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 46 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 46 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 50 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 64 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 65 Item 9B Other Information 66 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11 Executive Compensation 72 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 100 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Signatures 105 EX-10.34 EX-10.35 EX-10.36 EX-10.37 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 i Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements Any statements in this report and the information incorporated herein by reference about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “estimate,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “seek,” “plan,” “expect,” “should,” or “would.” Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements are risks and uncertainties inherent in our business including, without limitation, statements about our interpretation of the Complete Response Letter that we received from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, on February 25, 2009 relating to our New Drug Application, or NDA, for Silenor® (doxepin), and the FDA’s agreement with such interpretation; the potential for the FDA to approve the NDA for Silenor for one or more indications on a timely basis or at all; the potential for the FDA to impose non-clinical, clinical or other requirements to be completed before or after regulatory approval of Silenor; our ability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that potential NDA approval of Silenor is appropriate without standard, long-term carcinogenicity studies, given the context of completed trials and pending studies; the timing and results of preclinical studies for Silenor, and the FDA’s agreement with our interpretation of such results; inadequate therapeutic efficacy or unexpected adverse side effects relating to Silenor that could delay or prevent approval or commercialization, or that could result in recalls or product liability claims; our ability to raise sufficient capital to meet FDA requirements and otherwise fund our operations, and to meet our obligations to parties with whom we contract relating to financing activity, and the impact of any such financing activity on the level of our stock price; the impact of any inability to raise sufficient capital to fund ongoing operations, including the potential to be required to restructure the company or to be unable to continue as a going concern; the potential to enter into and the terms of any strategic transaction relating to Silenor; our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor, if it is approved by the FDA; the scope, validity and duration of patent protection and other intellectual property rights for Silenor; the extent to which any approved label for Silenor together with such patent protection can provide exclusivity for Silenor; our ability to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; the market potential for insomnia treatments, and our ability to compete within that market; other difficulties or delays in development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of Silenor; our products, our expected future revenues, operations and expenditures and projected cash needs; and other risks detailed below in Part I — Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievement. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless required by law. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in August 2003. Our principal executive offices are located at 3721 Valley Centre Drive, Suite 500, San Diego, California 92130, and our telephone number is (858) 480-0400. Our website address is www.somaxon.com. The information on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this report. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report and the information incorporated herein by reference to “Somaxon,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. We have received a trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, for our corporate name, SOMAXON PHARMACEUTICALS for use in connection with pharmaceutical preparations for the treatment of neurological, psychiatric and rheumatologic disorders. We have obtained foreign trademark registrations for the trademark SOMAXON PHARMACEUTICALS in Europe, Japan and Australia and have a pending foreign trademark application for the same mark in Canada. We have received trademark registrations for the trademark SILENOR in the U.S. and Europe and have applied for trademark registration for the same mark in Canada and Mexico. All other trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. Use or display by us of other parties’ trademarks, trade dress or products is not intended 1 Table of Contents to and does not imply a relationship with, or endorsements or sponsorship of, us by the trademark or trade dress owners. Item 1. Business Overview We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the in-licensing, development and commercialization of proprietary branded products and late-stage product candidates for the treatment of diseases and disorders in the central nervous system therapeutic area. We submitted our NDA for Silenor® (doxepin) to the FDA on January 31, 2008. The FDA accepted the NDA for filing effective March 31, 2008. Pursuant to Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines, the FDA was expected to complete its review and provide an action letter with respect to the NDA by December 1, 2008. However, in November 2008, the FDA indicated that its review of the NDA would be extended for up to three additional months, resulting in a new PDUFA date of February 28, 2009. On February 25, 2009, we received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to the NDA. The FDA stated that based on its review the NDA could not be approved in its present form. In the complete response letter the FDA raised a number of issues relating to the interpretation of the efficacy data contained in the NDA and indicated that the FDA was open to a discussion of these concerns. The FDA did not specifically request us to conduct additional clinical trials of Silenor. We believe that a discussion with the FDA will be necessary to gain a complete understanding of the implications of the issues raised in the complete response letter, and we have scheduled a meeting with the FDA for April 6, 2009. With respect to safety, the FDA noted that there were no adverse events observed in the clinical studies included in the NDA that would preclude approval, but asked us to address the possibility that doxepin may prolong the cardiac QT interval. We have responded by submitting to the FDA the results of our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for electrocardiogram, or ECG, effects. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that doxepin had no effect on QT interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. We believe that the data contained in the NDA, together with the data from the cardiac study that we submitted, are sufficient to support a determination by the FDA that Silenor can be approved for the treatment of insomnia. We believe that Silenor is highly differentiated from currently available insomnia treatments, and if approved, could have significant advantages in a large and growing market. Based on data from IMS Health, in 2008 the prescription market for the treatment of insomnia grew approximately 7% compared to 2007 to more than 63 million prescriptions. According to IMS Health, the insomnia market accounted for more than $2 billion in sales in 2008 despite the introduction in April 2007 of generic versions of Ambien, which was the leading prescription product at the time. We have undertaken activities to prepare for the commercial launch of Silenor if it is approved by the FDA. In addition, we continue to engage in discussions with third parties relating to the commercialization of Silenor. Silenor for Insomnia According to the American Psychiatric Association, approximately one-third, or 70 million, of adult Americans are affected by insomnia. One study has found that approximately 20% of those who suffer from insomnia are treated with prescription medications. We believe that Silenor, if it is approved by the FDA, has the potential to offer significant benefits to patients with insomnia. We in-licensed the patents and the development and commercial rights to Silenor and we are developing the product candidate for the U.S. market. Silenor is an oral tablet formulation of doxepin at strengths of 1 mg, 3 mg, and 6 mg. Doxepin has been marketed and used for over 35 years at dosages from 75 mg to 300 mg per day and is indicated for the treatment of depression and anxiety. Doxepin has a well-established safety profile, but it has a range of pharmacologic effects at high doses that were not observed in our clinical development program. Our clinical trials for Silenor demonstrated a favorable safety and tolerability profile, including a low dropout rate, an adverse event profile comparable to placebo, no clinically meaningful next-day residual effects and no evidence of amnesia, complex sleep behaviors, hallucinations, tolerance or withdrawal effects. 2 Table of Contents Silenor binds to H1 receptors in the brain and blocks histamine, which is believed to play an important role in the regulation of sleep. The leading approved insomnia medications, Ambien, Sonata and Lunesta, work by binding and activating a different set of brain receptors known as gamma aminobutyric acid, or GABA, receptors. Currently approved GABA receptor-activating drugs are designated by the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, as Schedule IV controlled substances, which require additional registration and administrative controls. Our NDA for Silenor includes the data from our completed clinical program for Silenor, which included six randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center clinical trials designed to assess the efficacy and safety of Silenor for the treatment of insomnia. All of the clinical trials demonstrated statistically significant differences relative to placebo on their primary endpoints and multiple secondary endpoints. We have also submitted to the FDA the results of our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that doxepin had no effect on QT interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. In addition, our NDA submission for Silenor included data from our non-clinical development program, including the genotoxicity, reproductive toxicology and 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity non-clinical studies of Silenor, which were undertaken based on a request from the FDA. In later correspondence, the FDA indicated that it may accept the results of a shorter-term carcinogenicity study for approval of the NDA and allow the standard two-year carcinogenicity study to be completed as a post-approval commitment. We continue to plan to submit the results of the standard two-year carcinogenicity study as a post-approval commitment. We initiated that study, which is a two-year carcinogenicity study in rats, in August 2007 and expect results in the first quarter of 2010. Our Strategy Our goal is to be a leading specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the in-licensing, development and commercialization of proprietary branded products and late-stage product candidates in the central nervous system therapeutic area. Our near-term focus is on seeking regulatory approval for and planning for the commercial launch of Silenor. In addition, we continue to engage in discussions with third parties relating to the commercialization of Silenor. Specifically, we intend to: • Maximize the value of Silenor. We have successfully completed our four Phase 3 clinical trials for Silenor in the treatment of insomnia. We designed our Phase 3 clinical program with the goal of facilitating regulatory approval for this product candidate. We believe that the data contained in the NDA, together with the data from the cardiac study that we submitted in response to the complete response letter that we received from the FDA in February 2009, are sufficient to support a determination by the FDA that Silenor can be approved for the treatment of insomnia. We believe that Silenor is highly differentiated from currently available insomnia treatments, and if approved, could have significant advantages in a large and growing market. We have undertaken activities to prepare for the commercial launch of Silenor. We continue to engage in discussions with third parties relating to the commercialization of Silenor. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete any strategic transaction, or that, if completed, any strategic transaction will be successful or on attractive terms. • Selectively evaluate other products and late-stage product candidates that are differentiated. We intend to selectively evaluate products and product candidates that are differentiated and meet unmet medical needs in the central nervous system therapeutic area. We believe this therapeutic area is an excellent focal point for a specialty pharmaceutical company, as drugs treating diseases and disorders of the central nervous system represent significant market opportunities. To reduce risks, costs and time-to-market, we would focus our efforts on currently-marketed products and late-stage product candidates. • Establish collaborations and outsourcing arrangements. We intend to seek opportunities to enter into strategic collaborations and outsourcing arrangements to drive growth and profitability. We believe that leveraging the capabilities of third parties will allow us to add efficiency to our operations. 3 Table of Contents Silenor (doxepin) for Insomnia Disease Background and Market Opportunity Sleep is essential for human performance, general health and well-being. Insomnia, the most common sleep complaint across all stages of adulthood, is a condition characterized by difficulty falling asleep, waking frequently during the night or too early, or waking up feeling unrefreshed. According to the American Psychiatric Association, approximately one-third, or 70 million, of adult Americans are affected by insomnia. One study has found that only approximately 20% of those who suffer from insomnia are currently treated with prescription medications. Chronic insomnia, insomnia lasting more than four weeks, is often associated with a wide range of adverse conditions, including mood disturbances, difficulties with concentration and memory, and certain cardiovascular, pulmonary and gastrointestinal disorders. Chronic sleep deprivation has also been associated with an increased risk of depression, diabetes and obesity, among other disorders. The National Institutes of Health 2005 State-of-the-Science Conference statement on the treatment of insomnia stated that estimates placed the direct and indirect annual costs of chronic insomnia at tens of billions of dollars, but cautioned that such estimates were based on many assumptions and varied extensively. The U.S. market for prescription products to treat insomnia grew to approximately 63 million prescriptions in 2008 according to IMS Health, a growth rate of 7% for the year. According to IMS Health, the insomnia market accounted for more than $2 billion in sales in 2008 despite the introduction in April 2007 of generic versions of Ambien, which was the leading prescription product at the time. In September 2005, Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc. launched Ambien CR, a new, controlled-release version of Ambien. Unlike Ambien, Ambien CR is indicated for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnia and does not have a label restriction limiting the length of time of its use. Other sedative hypnotics and insomnia treatments, including: GABA-receptor agonists such as Lunesta, and Sonata, melatonin agonists such as Rozerem, several hypnotic benzodiazepines such as temazapam (Restoril) and flurazepam (Dalmane), and sedating antidepressants such as trazodone (Desyrel) account for the remaining prescriptions. According to physicians that we surveyed in our market research, one of the primary reasons they prescribe sedating antidepressants for the treatment of insomnia is that they generally are not associated with the risk of dependency. As a result, they are not Schedule IV controlled substances, and they may be administered for long periods of time. As an example, according to our market research, the majority of trazodone prescriptions are prescribed off-label for the treatment of insomnia. In our market research, physicians indicated that they would prefer to prescribe sleep medications for their patients that provided a full seven to eight hours of sleep, that removed any risk of dependency and that minimized known side effects of many of the currently prescribed products such as memory impairment, hallucinations and complex sleep behaviors. Our completed Phase 3 clinical trial program demonstrated that patients slept seven to eight hours with no evidence of dependence, tolerance, withdrawal, memory impairment, hallucinations or complex sleep behaviors. When presented with this product profile, the surveyed physicians indicated that Silenor could become the most widely prescribed insomnia product in their practice. We believe that the introduction of new prescription treatments having different clinical profiles from currently marketed products, coupled with the increased awareness at both the patient and physician levels that a chronic sleep deprivation can lead to deleterious health consequences, will translate into an increase in the treatment of insomnia and resultant prescription market growth. Limitations of Current Therapies According to the 2007 Sleep in America Poll, 65% of respondents reported experiencing insomnia symptoms a few nights a week. Of those, 71% of respondents often experienced awakenings during the night and waking up too early without being able to go back to sleep (sleep maintenance), and 26% had difficulty falling asleep (sleep onset). Historically, insomnia therapies have addressed sleep onset rather than sleep maintenance and duration. Only recently have therapies been approved with indications for sleep maintenance, although the ability of available drugs to maintain sleep throughout the night without unwanted next-day residual effects remains limited. 4 Table of Contents While there are a number of products currently available for the treatment of insomnia, we believe that the market is still underserved due in part to the limitations of current therapies. Our market research indicates that less than one-third of patients being treated for insomnia with prescription medications claimed they were very satisfied with their current treatment, and only 12% of patients claimed that their insomnia was well controlled. The high level of dissatisfaction is frequently attributed to characteristics associated with many of the currently marketed products. For example, almost one-third of patients claimed they woke feeling groggy, and 33% claimed to have suffered from memory impairment at some time after taking medication, with almost 80% reporting that they found memory lapse somewhat or very scary. Additionally, 24% of patients on prescription insomnia medication claimed that they were dependent on their medication and could not sleep without it. As noted above, millions of people with insomnia currently do not take prescription medication to treat their disorder. In our market research, 28% of people suffering from insomnia cited fear of addiction as the reason they did not seek prescription treatment, which was the most cited reason. Almost 10% of respondents suggested they do not use prescription treatments because they are worried about safety issues. Many of these people take over-the-counter, or OTC, medication in an attempt to help them sleep. However, in our market research almost one-third of patients claimed their OTC medication did not work for them and 25% claimed that they woke feeling groggy. In our market research, when consumers were asked their most favored prescription insomnia treatment attributes, the leading responses included: • the ability to have a full night’s sleep, defined as seven to eight hours, • to wake feeling refreshed without next day residual effects, • the ability to take the product over long periods of time without the risk of dependency, and • the removal or limitation of concerns about side effects, such as memory impairment. These consumers also indicated a lack of brand loyalty and an inclination to try newer medications that deliver these attributes. We believe that the clinical profile of Silenor can address each of these concerns. When presented with the Silenor clinical profile in one of our market research studies, all participants indicated a willingness to try Silenor. In addition, when these participants were asked to rate whether the product met all of their desired characteristics for the treatment of insomnia, 90% of them rated Silenor either a 9 or 10 on a ten point scale (with 10 being the highest rating). All drugs approved for the treatment of insomnia that act via the GABA receptors, as well as benzodiazepines and other GABA-receptor agonists, are deemed by the FDA and the DEA to have a potential for addiction and abuse and are classified by the DEA as Schedule IV controlled substances. As a result, many physicians are reluctant to prescribe, and patients are reluctant to take, scheduled drugs for chronic use in treating insomnia. The prescribing of a Schedule IV controlled substance brings scrutiny from the DEA and other regulatory bodies, and requires unique and burdensome registration and administrative controls. We believe that many physicians are uncomfortable prescribing controlled substances, especially when treating a patient with a history of addiction or when other effective non-scheduled treatment options are available. Drugs currently prescribed for insomnia may be associated with many unwanted side effects, such as dry mouth, unpleasant taste, blurred vision, residual next-day effects, amnesia, hallucinations, physical and psychological dependence, complex sleep behaviors such as sleep driving, hormonal changes and gastrointestinal effects. We believe that drugs with improved tolerability would be well received by both physicians and patients and will have the potential to accelerate the growth in the market. Silenor and its Advantages Based on the results of our clinical development program, we believe that Silenor could offer a number of advantages, if it is approved by the FDA: • Non-scheduled. Doxepin, at higher dosages, is not a scheduled drug. Additionally, the doxepin package insert states that doxepin has not been demonstrated to produce the physical tolerance or psychological 5 Table of Contents dependence associated with addictive compounds. Because doxepin is the sole active ingredient in Silenor, we believe that Silenor will likewise be a non-scheduled drug. The FDA has indicated that it will recommend that Silenor not be scheduled. Assuming Silenor is not a Schedule IV controlled substance, it will be able to be freely sampled, facilitating initial physician and patient trial. • Safety and tolerability. In our clinical trials for Silenor, there was a low dropout rate, an adverse event profile comparable to placebo and no clinically meaningful next-day residual effects, and we did not observe any amnesia, complex sleep behaviors, hallucinations, tolerance or withdrawal effects or any effect on QT interval prolongation. In addition, high-dose doxepin has been prescribed for over 37 years for depression at up to 50 times our proposed maximum dosage for the treatment of insomnia. • Efficacy. In each of the six well-controlled clinical trial contained in our clinical development program for Silenor, Silenor demonstrated statistically significant improvements compared to placebo on the primary endpoint and multiple secondary endpoints. Our clinical development program evaluated Silenor in both adults and the elderly, as well as for the treatment of both chronic and transient insomnia. Silenor is an oral tablet formulation of doxepin at strengths of 1 mg, 3 mg and 6 mg. Doxepin belongs to a class of psychotherapeutic agents known as dibenzoxepin tricyclic compounds. Doxepin was first approved by the FDA in 1969 and was originally marketed by Pfizer Inc. under the brand name Sinequan. Doxepin is currently available in oral capsule form for depression and anxiety at strengths ranging from 10 mg to 150 mg, and in solution form at a concentration of 10 mg/mL. Therapeutic dosages of doxepin for its indicated uses range from 75 mg to 300 mg daily, and at these dosages, doxepin exhibits potent sedative properties. However, the available strengths of doxepin are seldom used in the treatment of insomnia as they leave many patients reporting next-day residual effects and other undesirable side effects. According to IMS data, doxepin accounted for less than 0.2% of the insomnia prescriptions written during 2008. We believe that doxepin at low dosages does not exhibit the same pharmacologic effects as high-dose doxepin, and in our clinical development program we observed a low dropout rate, an adverse event profile comparable to placebo and no clinically meaningful next-day residual effects. It has been hypothesized that doxepin’s sleep promoting effects derive primarily from potent H1 histamine-blocking properties. It is believed that the drug does not work via any of the GABA receptors and, according to its FDA-approved labeling, does not appear to have any potential for dependency, addiction or abuse. Phase 3 Clinical Trial Results We completed four Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center clinical trials designed to assess the efficacy and safety of Silenor for the treatment of insomnia. In each of these clinical trials, Silenor demonstrated statistically significant results in meeting the designated primary and multiple secondary endpoints. The clinical trials consisted of: • a five-week clinical trial that enrolled adults (229) with chronic insomnia which evaluated Silenor in the sleep laboratory setting; • a one-night clinical trial that enrolled healthy adults (565) experiencing transient insomnia which evaluated Silenor in the sleep laboratory setting; • a four-week clinical trial that enrolled elderly patients (255) with primary sleep maintenance insomnia which evaluated Silenor in an outpatient setting; and • a twelve-week clinical trial that enrolled elderly patients (240) with chronic primary insomnia which evaluated Silenor in both the sleep laboratory and an outpatient setting. In each clinical trial, the drug effects were measured against the placebo using statistical methods which generate a p-value. A p-value is a measurement of statistical significance that represents the risk that the observed difference is caused by chance alone. A p-value of <0.05 indicates that the probability of concluding that the two groups are different, when they are actually not different, is less than five percent, and is usually the threshold for which one can declare with increased confidence that the observed difference is not a result of chance alone. 6 Table of Contents Phase 3 Clinical Trial of Adults with Chronic Insomnia Our first completed Phase 3 clinical trial for Silenor was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multi-center 35-day clinical trial designed to assess the efficacy and safety of 3 mg and 6 mg dose levels of Silenor in adults with primary insomnia characterized by sleep maintenance difficulties in a sleep laboratory setting. This clinical trial enrolled 229 adult male and female patients with chronic primary insomnia as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistics Manual, Fourth Edition. The primary endpoint was wake after sleep onset, or WASO, which is defined as the number of minutes a patient is awake from the time the patient initially falls asleep until the end of the evaluation period. WASO is the FDA’s preferred endpoint for the purpose of demonstrating sleep maintenance in sleep laboratory studies. We also evaluated total sleep time, or TST, which is the total minutes of sleep recorded; sleep efficiency, or SE, which is the total minutes of sleep divided by the total minutes in bed (8 hours); and latency to persistent sleep, or LPS, which is the number of minutes it takes to achieve persistent sleep. We also evaluated a number of patient-reported sleep outcomes including subjective total sleep time, or sTST, which is the patient’s estimate of TST, subjective wake after sleep onset, or sWASO, which is the patient’s estimate of WASO, and latency to sleep onset, or LSO, which is the patient’s estimate of how long it took to fall asleep. The objective sleep efficacy parameters are illustrated in the following diagram: The above diagram assumes two awakenings: one of “X” minutes duration and one of “Y” minutes duration. The actual number and length of awakenings during the night will vary by patient. Results of this Phase 3 clinical trial can be summarized as follows: Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated improvement in mean WASO of 25 minutes for 3 mg (p<0.0001) and 30 minutes for 6 mg (p<0.0001) versus placebo at the initial treatment period, which was the primary analysis of the primary endpoint. Statistical significance versus placebo was maintained at both doses for all time points, with WASO improving 15 minutes for Silenor 3 mg (p=0.0299) and 21 minutes for Silenor 6 mg (p=0.0012) versus placebo at the final time point. Total Sleep Time. Improvement on TST was statistically significant (p<0.0001) for both doses at the initial treatment period, with TST being 374 minutes for placebo, 415 minutes for Silenor 3 mg and 421 minutes for Silenor 6 mg. After four weeks of nightly administration, improvement in TST remained statistically significant for both doses relative to placebo, with TST being 391 minutes for placebo, 408 minutes for Silenor 3 mg (p=0.0262) and 419 minutes for Silenor 6 mg (p=0.0003). Subjective Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated improvement in mean sWASO of 18 minutes for 3 mg (p=0.0005) and 19 minutes for 6 mg (p=0.0007) versus placebo at the initial treatment period. Although the sWASO values for 3 mg and 6 mg generally remained improved from baseline after four weeks of nightly administration, statistical significance was not achieved at the later time points largely due to a substantial placebo response. 7 Table of Contents Subjective Total Sleep Time. Silenor demonstrated improvement in mean sTST of 23 minutes for 3 mg (p=0.0088) and 22 minutes for 6 mg (p=0.0135) versus placebo at the initial treatment period. Although the sTST values for 3 mg and 6 mg generally remained improved from baseline after four weeks of nightly administration, statistical significance was not achieved at the later time points largely due to a substantial placebo response. Sleep Efficiency. Silenor demonstrated SE results that were statistically significant and consistent with those observed for TST. In the final third of the night, Silenor generally demonstrated statistically significant improvement in Sleep Efficiency versus placebo for each dose. Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in LPS for both doses at the initial treatment period. Compared to LPS for placebo of 45 minutes, LPS for both 3 mg and 6 mg Silenor was 27 minutes (p=0.011 and p=0.0018, respectively) on the first night of treatment. Although the LPS values for 3 mg and 6 mg generally remained improved from baseline after four weeks of nightly administration, statistical significance was not achieved at the later time points largely due to a substantial placebo response. Statistical significance relative to placebo was not observed on LSO in this study. Safety. Both doses of Silenor were well tolerated. Side effects in the Silenor groups were comparable to placebo and there were no statistically significant differences versus placebo in next day residual measures. There was no evidence of tolerance to Silenor over the treatment period and sleep stages were preserved. Rebound insomnia, withdrawal effects, memory impairment, weight gain and anticholinergic effects were not observed. Phase 3 Clinical Trial of Transient Insomnia Our second completed Phase 3 clinical trial for Silenor was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center, parallel group clinical trial that enrolled 565 adults in a sleep laboratory setting using a phase-advance, first night assessment model of induced transient insomnia. Efficacy assessments evaluated both objective and subjective measures of sleep. The primary endpoint was LPS. LPS is the FDA’s preferred endpoint for the purpose of demonstrating sleep onset in sleep laboratory studies. We also evaluated a number of other sleep outcomes, including LSO, WASO, TST, sWASO, sTST and SE. Results of this Phase 3 clinical trial can be summarized as follows: Latency to Persistent Sleep. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in LPS, which was the primary endpoint. Compared to LPS for placebo of 34 minutes, LPS for 6 mg Silenor was 21 minutes (p<0.0001). Latency to Sleep Onset. Improvement in LSO was statistically significant, with LSO being 48 minutes for placebo and 32 minutes for Silenor (p<0.0001). Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in WASO, with WASO being 78 minutes for placebo and 38 minutes for Silenor (p<0.0001). Total Sleep Time. Improvement of TST was statistically significant (p<0.0001), with TST being 374 minutes for placebo and 425 minutes for Silenor. Subjective Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in sWASO, with sWASO being 37 minutes for placebo and 26 minutes for Silenor (p=0.0063). Subjective Total Sleep Time. Improvement on sTST was statistically significant (p<0.0001), with sTST being 394 minutes for placebo and 427 minutes for Silenor. Sleep Efficiency. Silenor achieved statistically significant results compared to placebo in SE for the entire night and in each third of the night. Safety. Silenor was well tolerated in this clinical trial. The incidence of adverse events was low and comparable to placebo. There were no reports of amnesia, memory impairment, or anticholinergic effects, and there were no clinically meaningful effects on measures of next day impairment. 8 Table of Contents Phase 3 Clinical Trial of Elderly Patients with Primary Sleep Maintenance Insomnia in an Outpatient Setting Our third completed Phase 3 clinical trial for Silenor was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center, parallel group outpatient clinical trial designed to assess the efficacy and safety of 6 mg of Silenor in elderly patients with primary sleep maintenance insomnia. The clinical trial enrolled 255 elderly subjects with at least a three month history of insomnia. Safety and efficacy were evaluated over a four week period. The primary endpoint was sTST. We also evaluated a number of other sleep outcomes, including WASO, LSO and Clinical Global Impression, or CGI, which can be either a patient-reported rating of the patient’s improvement over time, or a clinician-reported rating of the patient’s severity of illness and improvement over time. Results of this Phase 3 clinical trial can be summarized as follows: Subjective Total Sleep Time. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant improvement compared to placebo in sTST as measured at week one. Improvement compared to baseline at week one was 23 minutes for placebo and 52 minutes for Silenor (p<0.0001). Statistical significance was maintained for all time points measured throughout the four week treatment period. At week four, improvement compared to baseline at week one was 43 minutes for placebo and 63 minutes for Silenor (p=0.0017). Subjective Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor achieved a statistically significant improvement compared to placebo in sWASO at week one (p<0.0001). This effect was maintained at the four week time point. Improvement in sWASO compared to baseline at week one was 15 minutes for placebo and 37 minutes for Silenor (p<0.0001). At week four, improvement compared to baseline was 33 minutes for placebo and 50 minutes for Silenor (p=0.0026). Latency to Sleep Onset. Silenor also demonstrated improvements relative to baseline in LSO. This improvement was sustained throughout the four week treatment period, but statistical significance relative to placebo was not demonstrated. Patient-Reported Clinical Global Impression. Silenor achieved statistically significant improvements relative to placebo for patient-reported CGI measuring the percentage of patients reporting reduced time to fall asleep. These differences were statistically significant at weeks 2, 3 and 4. Safety. Silenor was well tolerated in this clinical trial. The incidence of adverse events was generally comparable to placebo and there were no reports of amnesia, memory impairment or weight gain. Phase 3 Clinical Trial of Long-Term Dosing of Elderly Patients with Chronic Primary Insomnia Our fourth and final completed Phase 3 clinical trial for Silenor was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center, parallel group clinical trial designed to assess the efficacy and safety of 1 mg and 3 mg of Silenor in elderly patients with chronic primary insomnia. The clinical trial enrolled 240 elderly subjects, and efficacy assessments evaluated both objective sleep laboratory and subjective measures of sleep. Subjective efficacy assessments were made both in the sleep laboratory and on an outpatient basis. Safety and efficacy were evaluated over a 12 week period, which we believe represents the longest clinical trial reported to date for insomnia that evaluated efficacy in both the sleep laboratory and outpatient settings. The primary endpoint was WASO. We also evaluated a number of other sleep outcomes, including TST, LPS, SE, sTST, LSO and CGI. Results of this Phase 3 clinical trial can be summarized as follows: Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated a statistically significant improvement compared to placebo in WASO as measured at night one, for both doses studied (1 mg: p=0.0053; 3 mg: p<0.0001), with WASO decreasing from 109 minutes for placebo to 92 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and to 75 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Statistical significance for this endpoint was also achieved at the end of the 12 week treatment period for both doses studied (1 mg: p=0.0330; 3 mg: p<0.0001). Improvement of WASO compared to baseline at night one was 28 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 43 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. At night 85, improvement compared to baseline was 23 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 42 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Total Sleep Time. Improvement of TST was statistically significant for both doses at the initial time point. After 12 weeks of nightly administration, improvement of TST remained statistically significant for both 9 Table of Contents doses relative to placebo. Improvement of TST compared to baseline at night one was 37 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 56 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. At night 85, improvement compared to baseline was 38 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 47 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Latency to Persistent Sleep. Silenor demonstrated improvements relative to baseline in LPS for both doses. These improvements were maintained after 12 weeks of nightly administration. Statistical significance relative to placebo was not observed at either time point. Improvement of LPS compared to baseline at night one was 7 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 13 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. At night 85, improvement compared to baseline was 16 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 4 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Sleep Efficiency. Both doses of Silenor achieved a statistically significant improvement compared to placebo in SE at the first time point. These effects were also statistically significant at the last time point following 12 weeks of nightly administration. Both doses of Silenor also achieved statistically significant results compared to placebo in SE for the final third of the night as measured at the first time point. This effect was maintained throughout the clinical trial for the 3 mg dose. Subjective Wake After Sleep Onset. Silenor demonstrated a decrease relative to baseline in sWASO measured in the sleep laboratory for both doses. In this clinical trial sWASO was not measured in the outpatient setting. These reductions were maintained after 12 weeks of nightly administration. Statistical significance relative to placebo was not observed at the initial time point, but was achieved at the 12-week timepoint for both doses. The decrease of sWASO compared to baseline at night one was 15 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 29 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. At night 85, the decrease from baseline was 41 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 35 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Subjective Total Sleep Time. Silenor demonstrated an increase relative to baseline in sTST measured in the sleep laboratory for both doses in both the outpatient and sleep laboratory settings. These increases were maintained after 12 weeks of nightly administration. In the sleep laboratory setting, statistical significance relative to placebo was not observed at the initial time point, but was achieved at the 12-week timepoint for both doses. In the outpatient setting, statistical significance relative to placebo was observed at the initial time point for the 3 mg dose only, and was achieved at the 12-week timepoint for both doses. In the outpatient setting, the increase of sTST compared to baseline at night one was 22 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 48 minutes for Silenor 3 mg, and at night 85, the increase from baseline was 74 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 81 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. In the sleep laboratory setting, the increase of sTST compared to baseline at night one was 13 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 32 minutes for Silenor 3 mg, and at night 85, the increase from baseline was 48 minutes for Silenor 1 mg and 39 minutes for Silenor 3 mg. Latency to Sleep Onset. Silenor achieved statistically significant results compared to placebo in LSO in the outpatient setting for the 3 mg dose. Both doses achieved a statistically significant improvement at week four and at the last time point following 12 weeks of nightly administration. Patient-Reported Clinical Global Impression. Silenor achieved statistically significant improvements relative to placebo for patient-reported CGI measuring the percentage of patients reporting improved sleep. These differences were statistically significant for the 1 mg dose at nights 57 and 85, and for the 3 mg dose at all time points assessed. Clinician-Reported Clinical Global Impression. Silenor achieved improvements relative to placebo for clinician-reported CGI measuring the percentage of patients with a moderate or marked improvement. These improvements relative to placebo were observed at nights 29, 57 and 85 for the 1 mg dose, and at all time points measured for the 3 mg dose. We did not assess these variables for statistical significance. Safety. Silenor was well tolerated in this clinical trial. The incidence of adverse events was comparable to placebo. There were no statistically significant differences relative to placebo in next day residual effects. No amnesia or memory impairment was reported in the Silenor treated group, and there were no differences compared to placebo in weight gain. 10 Table of Contents Phase 2 Clinical Trial Results Prior to the initiation of our Phase 3 clinical trial program for Silenor, we completed two Phase 2 randomized, multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-response clinical trials in a sleep laboratory setting in patients with primary sleep maintenance insomnia. One clinical trial evaluated Silenor in adults and the other in the elderly. The goal of these clinical trials was to evaluate a range of sleep efficacy parameters, and to evaluate the safety and tolerability profile of various strengths of doxepin (1 mg, 3 mg and 6 mg). All patients participated in four double-blind treatment periods (three dosages of low-dose doxepin as well as placebo) using a crossover design. Each patient received, in a random fashion, all clinical trial doses including placebo in a sleep laboratory setting, and the clinical trial included a five-or 12-day drug-free period between each dose designed to assure drug clearance. Results of the Phase 2 clinical trials can be summarized as follows: Adult Phase 2 Clinical Trial (67 patients) Wake After Sleep Onset. WASO at all tested dosages of Silenor (1 mg, 3 mg and 6 mg) showed statistically significant improvements as compared to placebo (1 mg: p=0.009; 3 mg and 6 mg: p<0.0001). The mean number of minutes of WASO for placebo was 61 minutes, as compared to 47 minutes at 1 mg, 39 minutes at 3 mg and 38 minutes at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Total Sleep Time. TST improved significantly at all Silenor dosages (1 mg: p=0.0005; 3 mg and 6 mg: p<0.0001) as compared to placebo. The mean number of minutes of TST for placebo was 390 minutes, as compared to 408 minutes at 1 mg, 415 minutes at 3 mg and 418 minutes at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Sleep Efficiency. SE was measured for the entire night, and analyzed for the initial, middle and final thirds of the night. All dosage levels of Silenor showed a significant improvement in SE for the entire night (1 mg: p=0.0005; 3 mg and 6 mg: p<0.0001). As measured in percentages, the mean SE for placebo was 81.2%, as compared to 84.9% at 1 mg, 86.5% at 3 mg and 87.2% at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Silenor showed a positive effect on SE in the first and middle thirds of the night. Even in the last third of the night, when many insomnia patients tend to wake up and are unable to fall back asleep, Silenor at all dosages significantly improved SE (p<0.0001) as compared to placebo. In the final third of the night, the mean SE for placebo was 79.6%, as compared to 86.8% at 1 mg, 88.2% at 3 mg and 89.3% at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Sleep Onset. LPS improved numerically over placebo, but did not reach statistical significance. Patients’ subjective assessment of LSO was superior to placebo at all dosages, reaching statistical significance at 6 mg (p<0.03). The mean number of minutes for LSO was 50 minutes for placebo, as compared to 47 minutes at 1 mg, 45 minutes at 3 mg and 43 minutes at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Other Parameters. Other objective and subjective parameters, such as Wake Time During Sleep, or WTDS, and subjective TST were generally consistent with the above-described results. Safety. Silenor was well tolerated at all dosages evaluated. The number of patients reporting adverse events, as well as the incidence and nature of adverse events, was similar across all dosages of Silenor and placebo. There were no reports of memory impairment and no serious adverse events. There were no clinically relevant changes noted in laboratory parameters, ECGs, vital signs, physical examinations or neurological assessments. Tests specifically administered to assess hangover/residual effects exhibited no significant differences versus placebo. Elderly Phase 2 Clinical Trial (76 patients) Wake After Sleep Onset. WASO at all tested dosages of Silenor (1 mg, 3 mg and 6 mg) produced statistically significant improvements as compared to placebo (p<0.0001). The mean number of minutes of WASO for placebo was 98 minutes, as compared to 80 minutes at 1 mg, 71 minutes at 3 mg and 64 minutes at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Total Sleep Time. TST improved significantly at all Silenor dosages (p<0.0001) as compared to placebo. The mean number of minutes of TST for placebo was 361 minutes, as compared to 377 minutes at 1 mg, 391 minutes at 3 mg and 398 minutes at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. 11 Table of Contents Sleep Efficiency. SE for the entire night was significantly improved for all dosages (p<0.0001) versus placebo. As measured in percentages, the mean SE for placebo was 75.1%, as compared to 78.6% at 1 mg, 81.4% at 3 mg and 83.0% at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Silenor showed a positive effect on SE in the first and middle thirds of the night. In the final third of the night, 3 mg and 6 mg dosages showed significantly improved SE versus placebo (p<0.0001). In the final third of the night, the mean SE for placebo was 69.2%, as compared to 73.0% at 1 mg, 78.9% at 3 mg and 80.8% at 6 mg dosages of Silenor. Sleep Onset. Silenor improved LPS numerically as compared to placebo. Subsets analyses of patients with greater difficulty falling asleep at baseline suggest a more pronounced effect of Silenor versus placebo. LSO demonstrated a statistically significant improvement (p<0.02) at the 6 mg dosage as compared to placebo. The mean number of minutes for LSO was 46 minutes for placebo and 34 minutes for the 6 mg dosage of Silenor. Safety. Silenor was well tolerated at all dosages. The number of patients reporting adverse events, as well as the incidence and nature of adverse events, was similar across all dosages of Silenor and comparable to placebo. There were no reports of memory impairment, and no drug-related serious adverse events. There were no clinically relevant changes noted in laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical examinations, neurological assessments or ECGs. Results of tests specifically administered to assess hangover/residual effects exhibited no significant differences versus placebo. Electrocardiogram Study Results We also voluntarily completed a standard clinical trial of doxepin designed to evaluate the potential for ECG effects. We initiated this clinical trial in the second quarter of 2008. The clinical trial design incorporated the FDA’s guidance for industry as well as input from consultation with several experts experienced in the design and analysis of ECG studies. This clinical trial enrolled approximately 200 subjects and included both a placebo control group and an active control group dosed with moxifloxacin. We evaluated the ECG effects of doxepin following multiple dose administrations and included both Silenor 6 mg and a dose of 50 mg in order to achieve exaggerated exposure conditions. The primary endpoint of this clinical trial was duration of the cardiac QT interval corrected for heart rate, or QTc. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that Silenor had no effect on QTc interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. The primary analysis of the primary endpoint was time-matched change from baseline in QTc using an individualized correction method, or QTcI. On this analysis, both doses of doxepin demonstrated no differences relative to placebo. The same result was obtained using time-averaged analysis of QTcI for both doses. In addition, in accordance with FDA regulatory guidance, we performed standard categorical analyses to determine whether any subjects had an increase in QTcI of more than 30 or 60 ms from baseline and also to determine whether the absolute QTcI value exceeded 480 or 500 ms at any time point after dosing. Doxepin did not exceed any of the aforementioned categorical thresholds for either dose. Other secondary analyses were conducted and were also consistent with the primary analysis. In addition, at the doses used in this clinical trial doxepin had no effects on any other studied ECG parameters. The active and placebo control groups performed as expected and provided support that this was a valid and well controlled clinical trial. Regulatory Status and Non-clinical Development Program We submitted our NDA for Silenor under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, an approach to seek regulatory approval for, among other things, new indications of drugs which have previously been approved by the FDA. The process allows a company to rely on published literature reports or the FDA’s findings of safety and efficacy for a previously-approved drug for which the company does not have a right of reference. Filers relying on this approach may not be required to duplicate some previously conducted research, accordingly saving time and money. In addition, these filers may qualify for a period of three-year marketing exclusivity for a new condition of approval. 12 Table of Contents We submitted our NDA for Silenor (doxepin) to the FDA on January 31, 2008. The FDA accepted the NDA for filing effective March 31, 2008. Pursuant to Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, guidelines, the FDA was expected to complete its review and provide an action letter with respect to the NDA by December 1, 2008. However, in November 2008, the FDA indicated that its review of the NDA would be extended for up to three additional months, resulting in a new PDUFA date of February 28, 2009. On February 25, 2009, we received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to the NDA. The FDA stated that based on its review the NDA could not be approved in its present form. In the complete response letter the FDA raised a number of issues relating to the interpretation of the efficacy data contained in the NDA and indicated that the FDA was open to a discussion of these concerns. The FDA did not specifically request us to conduct additional clinical trials of Silenor. We believe that a discussion with the FDA will be necessary to gain a complete understanding of the implications of the issues raised in the complete response letter, and we have scheduled a meeting with the FDA for April 6, 2009. With respect to safety, the FDA noted that there were no adverse events observed in the clinical studies included in the NDA that would preclude approval, but asked us to address the possibility that doxepin may prolong the cardiac QT interval. We have responded by submitting to the FDA the results of our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that doxepin had no effect on QT interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. In addition to the results of our six well-controlled clinical studies of Silenor, our NDA submission also included data from our non-clinical development program, including the genotoxicity, reproductive toxicology and 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity non-clinical studies of Silenor, which were undertaken based on a request from the FDA. Since that request, the FDA has indicated that it may accept the results of a shorter-term carcinogenicity study for approval of the NDA and allow the standard two-year carcinogenicity study to be completed as a post-approval commitment. We continue to plan to submit the results of the standard two-year carcinogenicity study as a post-approval commitment. We initiated that study, which is a two-year carcinogenicity study in rats, in August 2007 and expect results in the first quarter of 2010. Commercialization Strategy We believe that the commercial success of Silenor will largely depend on gaining access to the highest prescribing physicians of insomnia treatments. IMS Health data indicates that psychiatrists, neurologists and sleep specialists represent more than 30% of the total prescriptions for the top deciles of prescribers of insomnia treatments. We have undertaken activities to prepare for the commercial launch of Silenor. We continue to engage in discussions with third parties relating to the commercialization of Silenor. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete any strategic transaction, or that, if completed, any strategic transaction will be successful or on attractive terms. Technology In-Licenses Silenor Agreements In a license agreement entered into in August 2003, as amended in October 2003 and September 2006, we acquired the exclusive, worldwide license from ProCom One, Inc., or ProCom, to certain patents to develop and commercialize low dosages of doxepin for the treatment of insomnia. Although our license to the low-dose doxepin patents is a worldwide license, we currently intend to develop and commercialize Silenor in the United States only, since patent protection for the current dosage form is limited to the United States. The term of the license extends until the last licensed patent expires, which is expected to occur no earlier than 2020. The license agreement is terminable at any time by us with 30 days notice if we believe that the use of the product poses an unacceptable safety risk or if it fails to achieve a satisfactory level of efficacy. Either party may terminate the agreement with 30 days notice if the other party commits a material breach of its obligations and fails to remedy the breach within 13 Table of Contents 90 days, or upon the filing of bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, or receivership proceedings relating to the other party. As consideration for the license, we paid $100,000 as an option payment and $400,000 as the first milestone payment for a total of $500,000 for the period ended December 31, 2003. We paid $500,000 in January 2005 and an additional $500,000 in December 2006 in connection with the achievement of milestones. A future payment of $1.0 million would be payable upon approval of our NDA for Silenor by the FDA. We are also obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of the licensed products. We have the right to grant sublicenses to third parties. We also issued 84,000 shares of common stock to ProCom One contemporaneously with our Series A preferred stock financing. In October 2006, we entered into a supply agreement pertaining to a certain ingredient used in our formulation for Silenor. In August 2008, we amended our supply agreement to provide us with the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin. Pursuant to the supply agreement, we made an upfront license payment of $150,000 and are obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of Silenor beginning as of the expiration of the statutory exclusivity period for Silenor in each country in which Silenor is marketed. Such royalty is only payable if one or more patents under the license agreement continue to be valid in each such country and a patent relating to our formulation for Silenor has not issued in such country. Nalmefene Agreements In November 2004, we entered into an agreement with BioTie Therapies Corp., or BioTie, for the license of oral nalmefene hydrochloride for the treatment of impulse control disorders and substance abuse disorders. The term of the license was to extend through the expiration of the licensed rights which was expected to occur in 2017. Pursuant to the license agreement, we paid BioTie $3.2 million during 2004. In December 2006, we received the results from our Phase 2/3 clinical trial evaluating nalmefene for the treatment of pathological gambling which did not show a statistically significant improvement compared to placebo. We analyzed the results and made the determination not to move forward with further development of nalmefene for the treatment of impulse control disorders or substance abuse disorders. In March 2009, we and BioTie entered into an agreement to mutually terminate the license agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, BioTie agreed to pay us a $1.0 million termination fee. There are no further obligations under this license agreement. During 2005, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Miami for the exclusive worldwide rights for a patent relating to the treatment of nicotine dependence. The term of the license extends generally through the expiration of the patent, which is expected to occur in 2016, and potentially longer under certain circumstances. The agreement is terminable by us at any time with 60 days written notice. The University of Miami may terminate the agreement upon a material breach of the agreement, provision of a false report, or the insolvency or certain bankruptcy proceedings against us. We made immaterial payments to the University of Miami during 2008, 2007, and 2006, and are obligated to make immaterial future annual payments. We are required to pay a royalty on net sales of the licensed product in the United States, subject to credits for prior annual payments already made. In July 2006, we received the results from our exploratory trial evaluating nalmefene for smoking cessation which showed positive results. Intellectual Property Silenor We are the exclusive licensee of four U.S. patents from ProCom One claiming the use of low dosages of doxepin and other antidepressants. U.S. Patent No. 6,211,229, “Treatment of Transient and Short Term Insomnia,” covers dosages of doxepin from 0.5 mg to 20 mg for use in the treatment of transient insomnia and expires in February 2020. U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment For Insomnia,” claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin and expires in March 2013. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of our “Treatment For Insomnia” patent. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the USPTO issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise 14 Table of Contents healthy patients and for patients with insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosages above 10 mg. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. Because we are seeking to develop Silenor for indications consistent with the subject matter of our patent claims, we believe that our licensed patents will restrict the ability of competitors to market doxepin with identical drug labeling. Additionally, we have the exclusive license from ProCom One to a third patent in the series, U.S. Patent No. 5,643,897, which is a divisional of the ’047 patent and claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using amitriptyline, trimipramine, trazodone and mixtures thereof in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg. This patent expires in March 2013. A fourth patent to which we have an exclusive license from ProCom One, U.S. Patent No. 6,344,487, claims a method of treating insomnia with low dosage forms (0.5 mg to 10 mg) of nortriptyline. This patent expires in June 2020. In addition, pursuant to our agreement with a supplier for a key ingredient used in our formulation of Silenor, we have the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin, and the exclusive license to the related patents and patent applications. We intend to list certain of these issued patents in the FDA’s publication “Approved Drug Product with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,” commonly known as the Orange Book. We have filed multiple patent applications resulting from unexpected findings from our development program. A brief summary of the content of these patent applications includes: • Methods of improving pharmacokinetics, • Formulations and manufacturing processes, • Methods of preventing early awakenings and improving sleep efficiency, • Methods of treating insomnia without sedative tolerance, rebound insomnia or weight gain, and • Methods of treating insomnia in the elderly. We intend to include these findings in our proposed label and, if the patents issue, to list them in the FDA’s Orange Book. The combination of these patents, if issued, and our proposed label could result in our patent protection being extended to 2028. We have also filed multiple patent applications relating to potential future products containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia. A brief summary of the content of these patent applications includes: • Orally disintegrating formulations, • Combination drug formulations, and • Method of treating insomnia with ultra low dose doxepin. Other Intellectual Property Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secret information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, and we would not be able to prevent their use. 15 Table of Contents Third Party Intellectual Property Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If any of these intellectual property rights was found to cover our product candidates or their uses, we could be required to pay damages and could be restricted from commercializing our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the intellectual property rights. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right, which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our product candidates. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may be required to pay if a court decides that the product candidate at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product candidate or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our technology; and • redesigning our product candidates so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents issued to third-parties do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products or product candidates or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege that they have patent rights encompassing our products or product candidates or methods. Research and Development Our research and development expenses were $16.5 million in 2008, $12.7 million in 2007, and $37.5 million in 2006. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of costs associated with our non-clinical development program for Silenor, clinical trials managed by our clinical research organizations, or CROs, costs associated with the preparation of our NDA for Silenor, regulatory expenses, drug development costs, salaries and related employee benefits, as well as share-based compensation expense. In 2008 and 2007 our most significant costs were associated with our non-clinical development program for Silenor, a standard clinical trial that we voluntarily conducted during 2008 to evaluate the potential for ECG effects of doxepin (the active ingredient in Silenor) and the preparation and submission of our NDA for Silenor. In 2006, our most significant costs were associated with conducting clinical trials, including services provided by CROs, investigators and consultants. Silenor Competition The FDA-approved products that are currently available for the treatment of insomnia consist of sedative hypnotics, including GABA-receptor agonists, hypnotic benzodiazepines and a melatonin agonist. In addition, products such as sedating antidepressants and other products which are not approved for the treatment of insomnia are sometimes prescribed for such use. 16 Table of Contents Ambien, a GABA-receptor agonist, and its generic equivalents have historically been the market share leader in the insomnia segment. Generic versions of Ambien (zolpidem) entered the market in April 2007. According to data obtained from IMS Health, generic versions of Ambien accounted for approximately 44% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008. In September 2005, Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc. launched Ambien CR, a new, controlled-release version of Ambien. Unlike Ambien, Ambien CR is indicated for the treatment of sleep maintenance insomnia and does not have a label restriction limiting the length of time of its use. Ambien CR accounted for approximately 13% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008 and branded Ambien accounted for approximately 2% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Lunesta, marketed by Sepracor Inc., is a GABA-receptor agonist that was approved in December 2004 by the FDA and was launched in the second quarter of 2005. Lunesta accounted for approximately 9% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Lunesta is indicated for the treatment of insomnia and has been shown to decrease sleep latency and increase sleep maintenance. It was the first of several products to have the short-term use restriction removed from its label. Rozerem was launched by Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. in September 2005 and accounted for approximately 2% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008 according to data obtained from IMS Health. Rozerem is indicated for the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. It is the first drug approved for the treatment of insomnia that is not a Schedule IV controlled substance. With the exception of Rozerem, the approved medications for the treatment of insomnia all act on GABA receptors and are designated as Schedule IV controlled substances. Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. conducted a clinical trial to evaluate the administration of a combination of Takeda’s product Rozerem and 3 mg of doxepin in patients with insomnia. We are unaware of the results of this trial. Sonata, a GABA-receptor agonist marketed by King Pharmaceuticals for the treatment of insomnia, and its generic equivalents accounted for approximately 1% of insomnia prescriptions in 2008 according to data obtained from IMS Health. The remaining market was comprised of older generic benzodiazepines and sedative antidepressants. In addition to the currently approved products for the treatment of insomnia, a number of new products are expected to enter the insomnia market over the next several years. While the new entrants bring additional competition to the insomnia market, they are also expected to increase the awareness of insomnia and further expand the market. Additionally, we believe market growth will also be driven by the aging of the population and emerging awareness of the links between sleep, health and overall well-being. In December 2008, NovaDel Pharma, Inc. received approval from the FDA for Zolpamist, an oral mist formulation of zolpidem for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. A number of other companies have drugs in development for the treatment of insomnia. Each of Meda AB and Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. submitted an NDA in 2008 for a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem for the treatment of insomnia. Sanofi-Aventis has completed Phase 3 clinical trials for Ciltyri (eplivanserin), a 5HT2 antagonist, and submitted an NDA for this product to the FDA and the EMEA for the treatment of insomnia during the fourth quarter of 2008. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed two Phase 3 insomnia clinical trials of VEC-162, a melatonin receptor agonist. In addition, Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd. initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial of almorexant, an orexin antagonist, in December 2007 for the treatment of insomnia and has announced that it intends to initiate a second Phase 3 clinical trial of this product candidate in 2008 or 2009. Actelion and GlaxoSmithKline recently announced a collaboration relating to almorexant under which GlaxoSmithKline received exclusive, worldwide rights to co-develop and co-commercialize almorexant together with Actelion. Several other companies, including Sepracor, are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics, and Eli Lilly and Company is evaluating a potential hypnotic that is a dual histamine/5HT2 antagonist. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced that it has initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Sonata. Additionally, several companies are evaluating new formulations of existing compounds and other compounds for the treatment of insomnia. 17 Table of Contents Manufacturing In February 2006, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing services agreement with Patheon for the manufacture of commercial quantities of our Silenor 1 mg, 3 mg and 6 mg tablets product candidate. Although we are not required to purchase any minimum quantity of Silenor under the agreement, we have agreed to purchase from Patheon not less than specified percentages of our total annual commercial requirements from all suppliers of Silenor, which vary depending upon annual volume. The agreement provides for an initial five-year term beginning upon commencement of the manufacturing services, and thereafter automatically continues for successive twelve-month terms unless terminated by written notice at least eighteen months prior to the end of the then-current term. Either party may terminate the agreement upon written notice if the other party has failed to remedy a material breach of any of its representations, warranties or other obligations under the agreement within 60 days following receipt of written notice of such breach. In addition, either party may immediately terminate the agreement upon written notice if (1) the other party is declared insolvent or bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) a voluntary petition of bankruptcy is filed in any court of competent jurisdiction by such other party or (3) the agreement is assigned by such other party for the benefit of creditors. We may terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior written notice in the event that any governmental agency takes any action, or raises any objection, that prevents us from importing, exporting, purchasing or selling the product candidate. In addition, we may terminate the agreement upon twelve months’ prior written notice in connection with our partnering, collaboration, licensing, sublicensing, co-promotion, sale or divestiture of rights to the product candidate, provided that no such termination shall be effective before the third anniversary of the commencement date. We have also entered into agreements with Plantex USA, Inc. to manufacture our supply of doxepin active pharmaceutical ingredient and with Anderson Packaging, Inc. to package Silenor finished products, and we have another agreement in place for the supply of a key ingredient contained in our formulation for Silenor. In August 2008, we entered into an amendment to our supply agreement providing us with the exclusive right to use this ingredient in combination with doxepin. Pursuant to the supply agreement, we made an upfront license payment of $150,000 and are obligated to pay a royalty on worldwide net sales of Silenor beginning as of the expiration of the statutory exclusivity period for Silenor in each country in which Silenor is marketed. Such royalty is only payable if one or more patents under the license agreement continue to be valid in each such country and a patent relating to our formulation for Silenor has not issued in such country. We intend to sell any products we market to pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn will seek to distribute the products to retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, hospitals and other institutional customers. We have retained or intend to retain third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the distribution of our products, including logistics management, sample accountability, storage and transportation. Government Regulation Governmental authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, among other things, of pharmaceutical products. In the United States, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and regulations, subjects pharmaceutical products to rigorous review. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. We and our manufacturers and CROs may also be subject to regulations under other federal, state, and local laws, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Clean Air Act and import, export and customs regulations as well as the laws and regulations of other countries. FDA Approval Process To obtain approval of a new product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling including a proposed proprietary name for the product. The testing and collection of data and the preparation of necessary applications are expensive and time-consuming. The FDA may not act quickly or 18 Table of Contents favorably in reviewing these applications, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain FDA approvals that could delay or preclude us from marketing our products. The process required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: completion of non-clinical laboratory and animal testing in compliance with FDA regulations, submission of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin, performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use, and submission and approval of an NDA by the FDA. The sponsor typically conducts human clinical trials in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1 clinical trials, the product is tested in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more dosages. In Phase 2 clinical trials, in addition to safety, the sponsor evaluates the efficacy of the product on targeted indications, and identifies possible adverse effects and safety risks in a patient population. Phase 3 clinical trials typically involve testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at geographically-dispersed test sites. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s good clinical practices requirements. The FDA may order the partial, temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. The institutional review board, or IRB, generally must approve the clinical trial design and patient informed consent at each clinical site and may also require the clinical trial at that site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB’s requirements, or may impose other conditions. The applicant must submit to the FDA the results of the non-clinical and clinical trials, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling, in the form of an NDA, including payment of a user fee, unless the applicant qualifies for a waiver of the user fee. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA has ten months in which to complete its review of a standard NDA and respond to the applicant. The review process and the PDUFA goal date may be extended by three months if the FDA requests or the NDA sponsor otherwise provides additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission within the three months prior to the PDUFA goal date. If the FDA’s evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for a specified indication. If the FDA is not sufficiently satisfied with the information in the NDA to issue an approval letter, the FDA may issue a complete response letter, which usually will describe all of the specific deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the NDA and when possible, recommend actions that the NDA sponsor may take to address the identified deficiencies. On February 25, 2009, we received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to our NDA for Silenor. The FDA stated that based on its review the NDA could not be approved in its present form. In the complete response letter the FDA raised a number of issues relating to the interpretation of the efficacy data contained in the NDA and indicated that the FDA was open to a discussion of these concerns. The FDA did not specifically request us to conduct additional clinical trials of Silenor. We believe that a discussion with the FDA will be necessary to gain a complete understanding of the implications of the issues raised in the complete response letter, and we have scheduled a meeting with the FDA for April 6, 2009. With respect to safety, the FDA noted that there were no adverse events observed in the clinical studies included in the NDA that would preclude approval, but asked us to address the possibility that doxepin may prolong the cardiac QT interval. We have responded by submitting to the FDA the results of our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that doxepin had no effect on QT interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. After we meet with the FDA to discuss the complete response letter, we may address all issues raised in the complete response letter by submitting revisions to the NDA. The FDA will typically classify the submission as 19 Table of Contents Class 1, resulting in a new, two-month review cycle beginning as of the submission date, or Class 2, resulting in a new, six-month review cycle beginning as of the submission date. Section 505(b)(1) New Drug Applications The approval process described above is premised on the applicant being the owner of, or having obtained a right of reference to, all of the data required to prove the safety and effectiveness of a drug product. This type of marketing application, sometimes referred to as a “full” or “stand-alone” NDA, is governed by Section 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. A Section 505(b)(1) NDA contains full reports of investigations of safety and effectiveness, which includes the results of non-clinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product, in addition to other information. Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications As an alternate path to FDA approval for new indications, formulations or strengths of previously-approved products, a company may file a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, instead of a “stand-alone” or “full” NDA filing under Section 505(b)(1) as described above. Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit the applicant to rely upon the FDA’s findings of safety and effectiveness for an approved product or on published information. We submitted our NDA for Silenor under Section 505(b)(2), and as such it relies, in part, on the FDA’s previous findings of safety and effectiveness for doxepin. To the extent that the Section 505(b)(2) applicant is relying on the FDA’s findings for an already-approved product, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the approved product in the FDA’s Orange Book publication. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product’s Orange Book-listed patents or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents, the Section 505(b)(2) application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired. The Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. With respect to Silenor, there are no patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book publication relating to doxepin that have not expired, and there is no non-patent exclusivity that would conflict with our Silenor NDA. As a result, we did not submit a paragraph IV certification in connection with our NDA submission for Silenor. Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2), over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If these companies successfully challenge the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), the FDA may be required to change its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). This could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any Section 505(b)(2) NDA that we submit. The Hatch-Waxman Act Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, newly-approved drugs and indications benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five-year marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety. Hatch-Waxman prohibits the submission of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a Section 505(b)(2) NDA for another version of such drug during the five-year exclusive period; however, as explained above, submission of an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA containing a paragraph IV 20 Table of Contents certification is permitted after four years, which may trigger a 30-month stay of approval of the ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) NDA. Protection under Hatch-Waxman will not prevent the submission or approval of another full NDA; however, the subsequent applicant would be required to conduct its own non-clinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for the approval of new and supplemental NDAs, including Section 505(b)(2) NDAs, for, among other things, new indications, formulations, or strengths of an existing drug, if new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are essential to the approval of the application. We anticipate receiving three years of marketing exclusivity for Silenor if the FDA approves our NDA. Pediatric Exclusivity The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, which was signed into law January 4, 2002, and which reauthorized Section 111 of the 1997 FDA Modernization Act, provides in some cases an additional six months of exclusivity for new or marketed drugs for specific pediatric studies conducted at the written request of the FDA. The Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, authorizes the FDA to require pediatric studies for drugs to ensure the drugs’ safety and efficacy in children. PREA requires that certain NDAs or supplements to NDAs contain data assessing the safety and effectiveness for the claimed indication in all relevant pediatric subpopulations. Dosing and administration must be supported for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may also require this data for approved drugs that are used in pediatric patients for the labeled indication, or where there may be therapeutic benefits over existing products. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data, or full or partial waivers from PREA. We plan to work with the FDA to determine the need for pediatric studies for Silenor, and may consider attempting to obtain pediatric exclusivity for this product candidate. Other Regulatory Requirements Any approved product that we market may also be subject to a number of post-approval regulatory requirements. If we seek to make certain changes to an approved product, such as promoting or labeling a product for a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes or product enhancements or adding labeling claims, we will need FDA review and approval before the change can be implemented. While physicians may use products for indications that have not been approved by the FDA, we may not label or promote the product for an indication that has not been approved. Securing FDA approval for new indications or product enhancements and, in some cases, for manufacturing and labeling claims, is generally a time-consuming and expensive process that may require us to conduct clinical trials under the FDA’s IND regulations. Even if such studies are conducted, the FDA may not approve any change in a timely fashion, or at all. In addition, adverse experiences associated with use of the products must be reported to the FDA, and FDA rules govern how we can label, advertise or otherwise commercialize our products. There are post-marketing safety surveillance requirements that we will need to meet to continue to market an approved product. The FDA also may, in its discretion, require additional post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the sale or use of these products. For example, the label ultimately approved for Silenor, if any, may include a restriction on the term of its use or the population for which it may be used, or may not include the indication statement we desire or may include a qualification to such statement. Additionally, the FDA has directed manufacturers of all antidepressant drugs to revise their product labels to include a “black box” warning and expanded warning statements regarding an increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents and young adults being treated with these drugs. The active ingredient in Silenor, doxepin, is used in the treatment of depression and the package insert includes such a “black box” warning statement. We believe there are valid reasons for the FDA to not require such a warning statement in the product label for Silenor, if it is approved by the FDA. Specifically, Silenor is not intended to be indicated for or used in the treatment of depression and our proposed dosage for insomnia is less than one-tenth of that of doxepin for the treatment of depression. At these low doses, the clinical profile suggests that Silenor’s pharmacological action appears to be that of a selective histamine antagonist. These clinical findings are consistent with our preclinical receptor binding work. In addition, we have not evaluated and do not currently intend to seek regulatory approval for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia in children or adolescents. We also have not observed any evidence of suicidal 21 Table of Contents thinking or behavior in our clinical trials of Silenor for the treatment of insomnia in adults or the elderly. Further, the FDA-approved product Zonalon, which is a doxepin topical cream for dermatological indications, does not have a “black box” warning statement in its package insert, even though its use results in systemic exposure to the compound. Despite these arguments, we cannot be sure that a “black box” warning statement similar to those currently required in the product labels of antidepressant drugs will not be required for Silenor. Recently the FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. It is unclear how and to what extent, if any, these requests and recommendations will affect Silenor. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, we and the manufacturers on which we rely for the manufacture of our products are subject to requirements that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. To comply with cGMP requirements, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money and effort to meet requirements relating to personnel, facilities, equipment, production and process, labeling and packaging, quality control, record-keeping and other requirements. The FDA periodically inspects drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with cGMP requirements. Also, as part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. This practice is regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities, including, in particular, requirements concerning record-keeping and control procedures. Outside of the United States, our ability to market our products will also depend on receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and marketing authorization vary widely from country to country. 22 Table of Contents Third-Party Reimbursement and Pricing Controls In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time-consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. In many foreign markets, including the countries in the European Union, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing control. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 22 employees, consisting of clinical development, regulatory affairs, manufacturing and program management, business development, marketing and administration. In March 2009 we undertook a reduction in force that will result in us having 14 full-time employees as of April 1, 2009. Available Information We make available free of charge on or through our internet website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet address is www.somaxon.com. Information is also available through the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov or is available at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC, 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We will require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our planned commercialization efforts or we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We are a development stage company with no revenues, and our operations to date have generated substantial needs for cash. We expect our negative cash flows from operations to continue until we obtain regulatory approval for Silenor and are able to generate significant cash flows from the commercialization of Silenor. The development and approval of Silenor, as well as commercialization activities relating to Silenor if it is approved by the FDA, will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; 23 Table of Contents • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing and other commercial capabilities, if required; • the extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • the rate of progress and cost of our non-clinical studies, clinical trials and other development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We intend to seek additional funding through public or private sales of our equity securities, collaborations or other strategic transactions. In addition, we may obtain equipment leases and may pursue opportunities to obtain debt financing, or we may seek funding through assigning receivables or royalty rights. There can be no assurance, however, that additional financing will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising sufficient additional funds, we may be required to delay, scale-back or eliminate plans or programs relating to our business, relinquish some or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development, renegotiate less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose or cease operating as a going concern. In addition, if we do not meet our payment obligations to third parties as they come due, we may be subject to litigation claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, and may result in unfavorable results that could further adversely impact our financial condition. If we are successful in raising additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would likely result. If we are successful in raising additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Our independent auditors’ report for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Our near-term success is dependent on the success of Silenor (doxepin). To date the majority of our resources have been focused on the development of Silenor, and the majority of our resources are now focused on seeking regulatory approval and planning for the potential commercialization of Silenor. Accordingly, any failure or significant delay in the approval of Silenor or the successful commercialization of Silenor will have a substantial adverse impact on our business. There is no assurance that we will be granted regulatory approval by the FDA for Silenor on a timely basis or at all. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval by the FDA will be obtained for Silenor. A failure to obtain requisite FDA approval or to obtain approval of the label that we proposed will delay or preclude us from marketing Silenor or limit its commercial use, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA notified us that our NDA for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia was considered filed as of March 31, 2008. Acceptance of the filing means that the FDA made a threshold determination that the NDA was sufficiently complete to permit an in-depth, substantive review to determine whether to approve Silenor for commercial marketing for the treatment of insomnia. This FDA review process can take substantial time and require 24 Table of Contents the expenditure of substantial and unanticipated resources. As an organization, we have limited experience in filing and pursuing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approval, which may impede our ability to obtain such approval. Under the policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA was expected to complete its review and provide an action letter with respect to the NDA for Silenor as of December 1, 2008. Prior to December 1, 2008, the FDA informed us that it would not be able to complete its review by this date and indicated that its review would be extended for up to three additional months, resulting in a new PDUFA date of February 28, 2009. On February 25, 2009, we received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to the NDA. The FDA stated that based on its review the NDA could not be approved in its present form. In the complete response letter the FDA raised a number of issues relating to the interpretation of the efficacy data contained in the NDA and indicated that the FDA was open to a discussion of these concerns. The FDA did not specifically request us to conduct additional clinical trials of Silenor. We believe that a discussion with the FDA will be necessary to gain a complete understanding of the implications of the issues raised in the complete response letter, and we have scheduled a meeting with the FDA for April 6, 2009. Any delays in holding this meeting are likely to delay any potential approval of our NDA With respect to safety, the FDA noted that there were no adverse events observed in the clinical studies included in the NDA that would preclude approval, but asked us to address the possibility that doxepin may prolong the cardiac QT interval. We have responded by submitting to the FDA the results of our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects. The results of this clinical trial demonstrated that doxepin had no effect on QT interval prolongation when administered at 6 mg or under exaggerated exposure conditions of 50 mg. After we meet with the FDA to discuss the complete response letter, we may address all issues raised in the complete response letter by submitting revisions to the NDA. The FDA will typically classify the submission as Class 1, resulting in a new, two-month review cycle beginning as of the submission date, or Class 2, resulting in a new, six-month review cycle beginning as of the submission date. The potential exists that the review cycle could be longer depending on the FDA’s characterization of any data we choose or are required to submit for its review. Other NDA applicants have announced that the FDA has recently notified them that their scheduled review dates were delayed due to the FDA’s internal resource constraints. The FDA has also stated that it may fail to meet the review dates of other companies for the same reason. We cannot be certain that the FDA will not impose such a delay on the continued review of our NDA. The information included in the NDA for Silenor, including the data obtained from our non-clinical testing and clinical trials of this product candidate, are susceptible to varying interpretations. The FDA’s interpretation of the information included in the Silenor NDA, or submitted during the review of the NDA such as the data from our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects, could cause the FDA to impose additional requirements on us as a condition to obtaining regulatory approval, or we may voluntarily undertake additional work if we feel it would be beneficial to support regulatory approval or our proposed labeling for Silenor, in each case including additional non-clinical testing or clinical trials, analyses of previously-submitted non-clinical or clinical data, post-marketing studies and surveillance or other requirements. If during the review the FDA requests or we otherwise provide additional information or clarification regarding information already submitted, the review process may be further extended by the FDA, or regulatory approval could be limited or prevented. If the FDA’s evaluations of the NDA and the clinical and manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue an approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for a specified indication. If the FDA is not sufficiently satisfied with the information in the NDA to issue an approval letter, the FDA will issue another complete response letter, which typically would describe all of the specific deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the NDA and, when possible, recommend actions that the NDA sponsor may take to address the identified deficiencies. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of FDA regulatory review. For example, notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2) under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act over the last few years, certain 25 Table of Contents brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If these companies successfully challenge the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), the FDA may be required to change its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). This could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving our NDA for Silenor. If we are unable to secure approval by the FDA of the Silenor NDA in a timely manner, in the absence of substantial additional financing our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected, and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they will still be subject to substantial ongoing regulation. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained for Silenor, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or other activities. For example, the label ultimately approved for Silenor, if any, may include a restriction on the length of a prescription for its use or the population for which it may be used, or may not include the indication statement we desire or may include a qualification to such statement. Any of these could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve market acceptance of Silenor and generate revenues from its sale. Additionally, the FDA has directed manufacturers of all antidepressant drugs to revise their product labels to include a “black box” warning and expanded warning statements regarding an increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents and young adults being treated with these drugs. The active ingredient in Silenor, doxepin, is used in the treatment of depression and the package insert includes such a “black box” warning statement. Although Silenor is not intended to be indicated for or used in the treatment of depression and our proposed dosage for insomnia is less than one-tenth of that of doxepin for the treatment of depression, and although we have not evaluated and do not currently intend to seek regulatory approval for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia in children or adolescents, we cannot be sure that a similar warning statement will not be required. Recently the FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. It is unclear how and to what extent, if any, these requests and recommendations will affect Silenor. Further, although doxepin, at higher dosages than we have incorporated in Silenor, is not currently and has never been a Schedule IV controlled substance and the FDA has indicated in correspondence relating to our pre-NDA meeting for Silenor that it will recommend that it not be a Schedule IV controlled substance, we cannot be certain that Silenor will be a non-scheduled drug until the FDA and DEA have made final determinations on the matter. In our market research, physicians indicated that they limit their prescribing of Schedule IV controlled substances and that they would most likely increase their prescribing of insomnia medications if those medications were proven to be as effective as the market leading products without having the associated side effects or risk of addiction. Silenor and any other product candidate that we develop will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. For example, as a condition to any approval of the NDA for Silenor, the FDA may require us to develop a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, if the FDA determines that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of Silenor outweigh its risks. A REMS can include information to accompany the product, such as a patient package insert or a medication guide, a communication plan, elements to assure safe use, and an implementation system, and must include a timetable for assessment of the REMS. In addition, the FDA may require modifications to a REMS at a later date if new safety information warrants it. Any requirements imposed by the FDA may require substantial expenditures, and may delay the approval or potential commercialization of the product. 26 Table of Contents Approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our operations relating to Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties, including fines; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Even if the FDA approves Silenor, we may experience delays in the commercialization of Silenor, some of which are outside of our control. Even if we ultimately receive an approval letter for Silenor, we may be unable to commercialize Silenor immediately upon receipt of such letter. Commercialization of a product for which we have received an approval letter from the FDA could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control, including delays in the FDA’s issuance of approvals for our trademarks or delays in the completion of required procedures by agencies other than the FDA, such as the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA. For example, if the FDA determines that Silenor has abuse potential, it will notify the DEA of its scientific determination and scheduling recommendation and request the DEA to implement this determination through its rule-making process. Although the FDA has indicated to us that it will recommend that Silenor not be scheduled as a controlled substance, we cannot be sure Silenor will not be scheduled until the FDA and DEA have made final determinations on the matter. There can be no assurance that this process will be completed promptly. Any delays in this determination could result in delays in our ability to market and sell Silenor, if it is approved by the FDA. In addition, any determination that Silenor should be scheduled as a controlled substance is likely to result in restrictions on our marketing activities relating to Silenor. The non-clinical requirements requested by the FDA for Silenor could substantially delay any regulatory approval of this product candidate. The data from all of our clinical trials for Silenor was included in our NDA submission for Silenor. In addition, our NDA submission for Silenor included the results from several completed non-clinical studies that were required by the FDA, including our genotoxicity and reproductive toxicology studies and our 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study. The FDA requested that we conduct one additional non-clinical study, which is an ongoing two-year rat carcinogenicity study, and we intend to submit the results from this study as a post-approval commitment, subject to final approval by the FDA on whether to permit post-approval submission of such results. Our determinations regarding the timing of submission of our non-clinical study data for Silenor resulted from our previous interactions with the FDA. Based on a request in May 2006 from the FDA in connection with a planned pre-NDA meeting for Silenor, we initiated a non-clinical development program consisting of standard genotoxicity, reproductive toxicology and carcinogenicity studies. At that time, the FDA indicated that the data from the genotoxicity studies and reproductive toxicology studies should be included in the initial NDA submission for Silenor. The FDA also indicated that depending on the outcome of the genotoxicity studies, it may be flexible as to the timing of the conduct of the carcinogenicity studies, including the potential that the data from those studies may be submitted as a post-NDA 27 Table of Contents approval commitment. In September 2006, we completed the genotoxicity studies, and no signal indicative of genotoxicity was found in any of the assays. We submitted the results to the FDA, and in February 2007, the FDA agreed with our assessment that Silenor does not appear to have genotoxic potential. The FDA indicated that, unless other non-clinical data raise a concern, a complete assessment of the carcinogenic potential of Silenor may not be needed prior to NDA approval. In that correspondence, the FDA also indicated that it may accept the results of a shorter-term carcinogenicity study for approval of the NDA and allow the standard two-year carcinogenicity study to be completed as a post-approval commitment. We initiated our 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study of Silenor in May 2007. In May 2007, we received correspondence from the FDA in which the FDA stated that the results of our 26-week transgenic mouse carcinogenicity study of Silenor should be included as part of the initial NDA submission for Silenor. We completed that study in January 2008, and we included the results from that study in our NDA submission for Silenor on January 31, 2008. As with any other non-clinical data, our non-clinical study results for Silenor are subject to varying interpretations, and any resulting toxicology questions from the FDA could adversely affect our potential regulatory approval or product labeling or lead to additional studies. If the FDA requires us to submit additional non-clinical data, including the data from our ongoing two-year rat carcinogenicity study, as a condition to approval of the NDA for Silenor, significant delays in the approval of the NDA, if any, would result, and we may incur additional costs. Although we are pursuing discussions with other companies to facilitate the commercialization of Silenor, we may be unable to complete a collaboration or other strategic transaction on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if Silenor receives FDA approval, the commercial success of the product will largely depend on gaining access to the highest prescribing physicians of insomnia treatments. IMS Health data indicates that psychiatrists, neurologists and sleep specialists represent more than 30% of the total prescriptions for the top deciles of prescribers of insomnia treatments. With this in mind, we continue to engage in discussions with third parties relating to the commercialization of Silenor. The outcome of this process and the structure of any resulting transaction could vary depending on the interest and objectives of the parties. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete any strategic transaction, or that, if completed, any strategic transaction will be successful or on attractive terms. Compared to a commercialization strategy that involves a third party collaborator, the commercialization of Silenor by us without such a collaborator could require substantially greater resources on our part and potentially adversely impact the timing and results of a launch of the product. We also face competition in our search for parties with whom we may enter into a collaboration or other strategic transaction. These competitors may have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying, evaluating and consummating strategic transactions. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential collaborations or other strategic transactions that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. If we are able to complete a strategic transaction, depending on the timing of the transaction and the outlook of our partner or acquirer, such partner or acquirer could materially impact our plans for seeking regulatory approval for and commercializing Silenor. Such modifications could result in additional costs or delays in approval of the NDA for Silenor and any commercial launch of the product. We are in the process of planning for the potential commercialization of Silenor, and we will need to expend significant resources and recruit personnel to successfully commercialize Silenor and any other product candidates that we develop, acquire or license. We are planning for the potential commercial launch of Silenor, we are in the process of developing a marketing strategy that will focus on high-prescribing physicians in the U.S. Even though a number of our employees have been involved in the successful launch of new pharmaceutical products, as a company, we have 28 Table of Contents limited commercial infrastructure and experience. We have not commercialized any products, and may be unable to successfully do so. If Silenor is approved by the FDA, the commercialization process will require the expenditure by us of substantial financial and other resources. We intend to seek additional funding through various means. There can be no assurance, however, that such financing will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay or cancel planned commercialization activities, or the effectiveness of such activities may be adversely impacted. We expect to engage professional recruiting and search firms to help us build any sales organization we may develop. However, competition for quality sales and marketing personnel is intense. We may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified sales and marketing personnel. As a result, we may not be able to build a sales force of sufficient size or quality to effectively market our products. Even if we are able to successfully build a sales force, we will incur significant additional expenses associated with the recruitment, training and compensation of our new sales representatives. In addition, new employees, particularly new sales and marketing employees, will require training and education concerning our products. If we decide to pursue a relationship with a contract sales organization to facilitate our sales efforts, we may not be able to identify contract sales organizations with adequate sales capabilities or capacity. In addition, we may not be able to enter into agreements with these entities on commercially reasonable or acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we enter into any such arrangements with third parties, any revenues we receive from sales of our products in those markets will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, which in many instances will not be within our control. Any failure by any such contract sales organization to effectively sell our products could adversely affect our business. We have relied on third parties to assist us with many of our development and regulatory activities, and we intend to continue to depend upon third parties to help us meet our future development, regulatory and commercialization needs. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We have extensively relied upon third parties to assist us with various activities relating to our development programs and the regulatory approval process, and we intend to continue to rely on third parties to help us with these activities. In addition, because we currently have limited commercial infrastructure, we will have to rely extensively on third parties in assisting us with any commercialization activities relating to Silenor. This reliance is likely to accelerate as regulatory approval for Silenor, if any, is approached. If third parties we rely upon fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs, or if their performance is substandard or does not comply with applicable laws or regulations, it may delay or otherwise obstruct the approval of our NDA for Silenor or other product candidates we may develop and any resultant commercialization activities or product revenues. Moreover, these third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If third parties we have contracted with assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Silenor are limited to certain low-dosage strengths in the United States, and our market opportunity for this product candidate may be limited by the lack of patent protection for higher dosage strengths for which generic formulations are available and the lack of patent protection in other territories. Although we have an exclusive, worldwide license for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia through the life of the last patent to expire, which is expected to occur in 2020, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. In addition, although our in-licensed patent for the treatment of transient insomnia is scheduled to expire in 2020, our in-licensed patent for the treatment of chronic insomnia is scheduled to expire in March 2013. Accordingly, in the absence of additional patents or other alternatives to obtain additional exclusivity rights for Silenor, a competitor could attempt to market doxepin for a chronic insomnia indication as early as March 2013. Furthermore, the patent protection in the United States for Silenor for the treatment of 29 Table of Contents insomnia is limited to dosages ranging from a lower limit of 0.5 mg to various upper limits up to 20 mg of the active ingredient, doxepin. Doxepin is prescribed at dosages ranging from 75 mg to 300 mg daily for the treatment of depression and anxiety and is available in generic form in strengths as low as 10 mg in capsule form, as well as in a concentrated liquid form dispensed by a marked dropper and calibrated for 5 mg. As a result, we may face competition from the off-label use of these or other dosage forms of generic doxepin. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the FDA for one indication is prescribed by physicians for a different, unapproved indication. In addition, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. Others may attempt to commercialize low-dose doxepin in the European Union, Canada, Mexico or other markets where we do not have patent protection for Silenor. Due to the lack of patent protection for doxepin in territories outside the United States and the potential for correspondingly lower prices for the drug in those markets, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire low-dose doxepin in those other territories. The off-label use of generic doxepin in the United States or the importation of doxepin from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for Silenor and adversely affect our overall business and financial results. We have submitted additional patent applications for Silenor but we cannot assure that these will result in issued patents or additional protection in the United States or other jurisdictions. We expect intense competition in the insomnia marketplace for Silenor and any other product candidate that we develop, and new products may emerge that provide different and/or better therapeutic alternatives for the disorders that our product candidates are intended to treat. We are developing Silenor for the treatment of insomnia, which will compete with well established drugs for this indication, including: Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc.’s Ambien, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Sonata, and Sepracor Inc.’s Lunesta, all of which are GABA-receptor agonists, Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc.’s Rozerem, a melatonin receptor antagonist, and Sanofi-Synthélabo Inc.’s Ambien CR, a controlled-release formulation of the current GABA-receptor agonist, Ambien. In December 2008, NovaDel Pharma, Inc. received approval from the FDA for an oral mist formulation of zolpidem for the short-term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation. The time to market for this product remains unclear. Each of Meda AB and Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has submitted an NDA for a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem in 2008. Sanofi-Aventis has completed Phase 3 clinical trials for Ciltyri (eplivanserin), a 5HT2 antagonist, and submitted an NDA for this product to the FDA and the EMEA for the treatment of insomnia during the fourth quarter of 2008. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed two Phase 3 clinical trials of VEC-162, a melatonin receptor agonist. Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. has conducted a clinical study to evaluate the administration of a combination of Takeda’s product Rozerem and 3 mg of doxepin in patients with insomnia. We are unaware of the results of this trial. Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd. initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial of almorexant, an orexin antagonist, in December 2007 and has announced that it intends to initiate a second Phase 3 clinical trial of this product candidate in 2008 or 2009. Actelion and GlaxoSmithKline recently announced a collaboration relating to almorexant under which GlaxoSmithKline received exclusive, worldwide rights to co-develop and co-commercialize almorexant together with Actelion. Several other companies, including Sepracor, are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics, and Eli Lilly and Company is evaluating a potential hypnotic that is a dual histamine/5HT2 antagonist. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced that it has initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Sonata. Additionally, several other companies are evaluating new formulations of existing compounds and other compounds for the treatment of insomnia. Furthermore, generic versions of Ambien and Sonata have been launched and are priced significantly lower than approved, branded insomnia products. Sales of all of these drugs may reduce the available market for, and 30 Table of Contents could put downward pressure on the price we are able to charge for, any product developed by us for this indication, which could ultimately limit our ability to generate significant revenues. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, will not render Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • experience conducting non-clinical studies and clinical trials, and related resources; • expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights; and • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing resources and experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we can or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights or seek to invalidate or otherwise challenge our intellectual property rights, limiting our ability to develop or commercialize product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective and useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than we are in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, if we receive regulatory approvals for Silenor or any other product candidates we develop, manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently have no commercial manufacturing capability and limited sales and marketing infrastructure. Restrictions on or challenges to our patent rights relating to our product candidates and limitations on or challenges to our other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for Silenor and any other product candidate we develop, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent rights that we have in-licensed relating to Silenor are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we receive regulatory approval to market this product candidate. In particular, we do not hold composition of matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Silenor. Composition of matter patents on active pharmaceutical ingredients are a particularly effective form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. The principal patent protection that covers, or that we expect will cover, Silenor consists of method of use patents. This type of patent protects the product only when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for off-label indications that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may induce or contribute to the infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Because products with active ingredients identical to ours have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that these other products were never used off-label or studied in such a manner that such prior usage 31 Table of Contents would not affect the validity of our method of use patents. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of one of the patents we have in-licensed covering Silenor, (specifically, U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment For Insomnia”) which claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg and expires in March 2013. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the USPTO issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise healthy patients and for patients with insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosages above 10 mg. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. We also have multiple internally developed pending patent applications. No assurance can be given that the USPTO or other applicable regulatory authorities will allow pending applications to result in issued patents with the claims we are seeking, or at all. Patent applications in the United States are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of the issued patents that we in-licensed were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or that the inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, third parties may challenge our in-licensed patents and any of our own patents that we may obtain, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims, or could attempt to develop products utilizing the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our products that do not infringe the claims of our in-licensed patents or patents that we may obtain. If a third party files an NDA for a product containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia at any time during which we have patents listed for Silenor in the FDA’s Orange Book publication, the applicant will be required to certify to the FDA concerning the listed patents. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for Silenor or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. If the applicant has provided a paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the paragraph IV certification to us once the NDA has been accepted for filing by the FDA. We may then initiate a legal challenge to defend the patents identified in the notice. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of receipt of the notice automatically prevents the FDA from approving the Section 505(b)(2) NDA until the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. If we do not file a patent infringement lawsuit within the required 45-day period, the applicant’s NDA will not be subject to the 30-month stay. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. 32 Table of Contents Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights is often very complex in nature, may be expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with us. We will need to obtain FDA approval of our proposed product name, Silenor, and any failure or delay associated with the approval may adversely impact any product launch and commercial prospects. The use of the name Silenor requires approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the USPTO. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of the potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to our proposed product name, Silenor, we may be required to adopt an alternative name for this product candidate. If we adopt an alternative name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark for Silenor and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize this product candidate. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, together with our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell Silenor or any other product candidates that we develop and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our operations may give rise to claims that our products infringe the patent rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If our products, proprietary technologies or their uses infringe any of these intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the intellectual property rights holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and 33 Table of Contents • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the substantial number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. Any of these occurrences could delay or prevent us from commercializing Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop and generating resulting revenues from their sale, if any. In addition, the FDA may require, or we may undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of Silenor or our proposed labeling for Silenor. For example, the FDA’s review of the data from our completed clinical trial of doxepin that evaluated the potential for ECG effects could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, if Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product or implement a REMS; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale, if any. If Silenor or any other product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sale will be limited. The commercial success of Silenor or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community and reimbursement of the product by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of any of approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling, including, for example, potential “black box” warnings associated with the active ingredient in Silenor; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of Silenor, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of insomnia or expected to be commercially launched in the future; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • off-label substitution by chemically similar or equivalent products; 34 Table of Contents • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales, marketing and distribution strategies; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may require significant resources and may never be successful. If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture Silenor, and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We have a contract with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. to manufacture our future required clinical supplies, if any, of Silenor, and we have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Patheon to manufacture our commercial supply of Silenor. We have also recently entered into agreements with Plantex USA, Inc. to manufacture our supply of doxepin active pharmaceutical ingredient and with Anderson Packaging, Inc. to package Silenor finished products, and we have another agreement in place for the supply of a key ingredient contained in our formulation for Silenor. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to launch Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop, if approved, or provide any product candidates to patients in our clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial program and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at significant additional expense or terminate the clinical trials completely. In addition, all manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of our manufacturers’ facilities as part of their review of our marketing applications. If our manufacturers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval of our marketing applications. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Moreover, our manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulties related to their overall businesses and financial stability, which could result in delays or interruptions of our supply of Silenor. We do not have alternate manufacturing plans in place at this time. If we need to change to other manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for production. 35 Table of Contents Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop, or entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if our manufacturers failed to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including bulk drug substance, or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. Materials necessary to manufacture Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay development and commercialization. Although we have contracted with suppliers of doxepin and other key raw materials for Silenor, we largely rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the other materials necessary to produce our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our non-clinical studies or clinical trials of Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed or suspended, significantly impacting our development programs. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop, the commercial launch would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate sales revenues. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The sale of products for which we obtain marketing approval and the use of product candidates by us in clinical trials expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to continue development or commercialization of Silenor or any other product candidate. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5 million annual aggregate coverage limit, and our insurance coverage may not reimburse us at all or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of Silenor, if regulatory approval is obtained, or any other product we commercialize, but the cost of this coverage could be substantial. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 36 Table of Contents We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop, could hinder or prevent our commercial success. Our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor and any other product candidate that we develop will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit which became effective in January 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. It is also possible that other legislative proposals will be adopted, particularly in view of the new presidential administration. As a result of new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation or change our contract arrangements, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business efficiently, obtain collaborators and raise capital. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and time-consuming, and we expect that it could take several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product and makes a decision with respect to coverage. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic or OTC products, our overall business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices for Silenor and any other product candidate that we develop or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could harm our ability to market our products and significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2008 we had 22 full-time employees. In March 2009 we undertook a reduction in force that will result in us having 14 full-time employees as of April 1, 2009. We will need to recruit and train a substantial number of sales and marketing personnel necessary to support the commercialization of Silenor, if approved. Our 37 Table of Contents management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage the FDA review process relating to our NDA for Silenor; • manage our internal development and potential commercialization efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. Even if Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risks that Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of the product candidate and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. We have licensed Silenor from a third party. If we default on any of our obligations under that license or licenses to products to which we may acquire rights, we could lose rights to these product candidates. We in-licensed rights to Silenor through an exclusive licensing arrangement, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future. Under our license agreement for Silenor, we are subject to development and commercialization, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. Future licenses are likely to contain similar obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach these license agreements, the licensors may have the rights to terminate the licenses in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the licenses. For example, our license agreement for Silenor requires us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the product candidate. To the extent we are unable to comply with these obligations, the license may be terminated, which would materially harm our business and financial condition. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Although we have successfully completed all of our planned four Phase 3 clinical trials for Silenor, we have not received regulatory approval to market Silenor in any jurisdiction. The results from clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results obtained in future clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the 38 Table of Contents requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. If Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop is not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, or if the FDA does not deem the product candidate to be sufficiently safe and effective to warrant marketing approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products may impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to selectively evaluate products and product candidates. Because we neither have, nor currently intend to establish, internal research capabilities, we would be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, university scientists and other researchers to sell or license products to us. The success of this strategy will depend upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of evaluating, proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or produced profitably, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. If we acquire or in-license products and fail to successfully integrate them into our operations, we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our business. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to selectively evaluate products and product candidates that we believe may be a strategic fit with our business. Future acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the evaluation, acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and 39 Table of Contents may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, scientific, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development or commercialization objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management team or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, we have advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical, regulatory and commercialization strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development or commercialization of products that may compete with ours. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, specialty pharma or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements Capital raising activities, such as issuing securities, incurring debt, assigning receivables or royalty rights or through collaborations or other strategic transactions, may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights and may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. For example, in May 2008, we entered into a Committed Equity Financing Facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge, pursuant to which Kingsbridge committed to purchase our common stock, subject to certain conditions, pursuant to draw down requests made by us. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment thereunder, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. 40 Table of Contents Debt financing, receivables assignments, royalty interest assignments and other types of financing are often coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock. For example, in connection with the CEFF transaction with Kingsbridge and our secured loan transaction with Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance Corporation, we issued to Kingsbridge a warrant to purchase 165,000 shares of our common stock, we issued to Silicon Valley Bank a warrant to purchase 80,000 shares of our common stock and we issued to Oxford Finance Corporation a warrant to purchase 159,000 shares of our common stock. To the extent that any of these warrants, or any additional warrants that we issue in the future, are exercised by their holders, dilution of our existing stockholders’ ownership interests will result. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or other regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to conduct certain types of financing activities, or may affect the timing of and the amounts we can raise by undertaking such activities. For example, under current SEC regulations, at any time during which the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or our public float, is less than $75 million, the amount that we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using one or more registration statements on Form S-3 will be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. As of December 31, 2008, our public float was less than $75 million. The Committed Equity Financing Facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down and, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge. In May 2008, we entered into the CEFF with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; effectiveness of the registration statement; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of ten days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Our ability to conduct any drawdowns under the CEFF is subject to the effectiveness of a resale shelf registration statement and other conditions. One of these conditions is that the volume weighted average price, or VWAP, of our common stock, which is the aggregate sales price of all trades of our common stock during each trading day divided by the total number of shares of common stock traded during that trading day, on the applicable pricing date is above $1.75. On March 4, 2009, the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market was $0.36. Under current SEC regulations, at any time during which the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, is less than $75.0 million, the amount we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using shelf registration statements will be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. As of March 4, 2009, our public float was approximately 11,150,000 shares, the value of which was approximately $4.0 million based upon the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market of $0.36 on such date. As of March 4, 2009, the value of one-third of our public float calculated on the same basis was approximately $1.3 million. In connection with the CEFF, we filed a resale shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on July 18, 2008 with the SEC to facilitate Kingsbridge’s public resale of the shares of our common stock issuable under the CEFF or upon the exercise of the warrant issued to Kingsbridge. The resale shelf registration statement has not been declared effective by the SEC. 41 Table of Contents We are entitled in certain circumstances to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the related prospectus. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by the agreement, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge (exclusive of shares that Kingsbridge may hold pursuant to exercise of the Kingsbridge warrant) and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. We have never generated revenues or been profitable, and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability and, we will need substantial additional financing to operate our business. We are a development stage company and have not generated any revenues or been profitable since inception, and it is possible that we will not achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $37.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and $46.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant revenues, if any, or that we will ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our independent auditors’ report for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of development programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to development of Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop; • our entering into collaborations; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory developments; and • commercialization activities relating to Silenor, if it is approved by the FDA, or any other product candidate that we may develop, or commercialization activities of our competitors. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 42 Table of Contents The use of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2008, we had generated federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $132.4 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $129.6 million, the majority of which were generated in California. As of December 31, 2008, we have generated federal research and development tax credits of $4.1 million and California research and development tax credits of $1.9 million. Both federal net operating loss carryforwards and federal research and development tax credits have a 20-year carryforward period and begin to expire in 2023 and 2024, respectively. California net operating loss carryforwards have a ten year carry forward period and begin to expire in 2013. California research and development tax credits have no expiration. Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, annual use of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be limited in the event a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50 percent occurs within a three-year period. We determined that such an ownership change occurred as of June 30, 2005 as a result of various stock issuances used to finance our development activities. This ownership change resulted in limitations on the utilization of tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. We estimate that approximately $0.3 million of our California net operating loss carryforwards were effectively eliminated. In addition, we also estimate that approximately $18.3 million of our federal net operating loss carryforwards, $17.3 million of our California net operating loss carryforwards, and $0.9 million of our federal research and development credits were subject to the Section 382 limitation. A portion of the limited net operating loss carryforwards becomes available for use each year. We estimate that approximately $2.8 million of the restricted net operating loss carryforwards become available each year between 2006 and 2009, decreasing to $1.9 million in 2010 and $1.0 million per year thereafter. At December 31, 2008, we estimate that $8.6 million of our federal net operating loss carryforwards and $7.7 million of our state net operating loss carryforwards remain limited. After taking into consideration these limitations under Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, we estimate that at December 31, 2008, we had unrestricted federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $123.8 million and $121.6 million, respectively. We have not performed a Section 382 analysis since our initial public offering in December 2005. There is a risk that additional changes in ownership could have occurred since that date. If a change in ownership were to have occurred, it is possible that more of our net operating loss carryforwards could have been eliminated or restricted. In addition, future financing events may cause further changes in ownership under Section 382 which could cause our net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards to be subject to future limitations. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may have an impact on the value of our investment securities. Our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds and corporate and United States government agency notes. We do not have any auction rate securities. Recently, there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effects on various securities markets. While we do not believe that our investment securities have significant risk of default or illiquidity, we cannot provide absolute assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investments through impairment charges. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. In 43 Table of Contents addition, certain of our directors, executive officers and large stockholders have established or may in the future establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock. If any of these events causes a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. There may not be a viable public market for our common stock, and market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in December 2005, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our initial public offering on December 15, 2005 through March 4, 2009, the trading prices for our common stock have ranged from a high of $21.24 to a low of $0.30. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the regulatory status of our products or product candidates, including requirements to conduct or results or anticipated timing of our non-clinical studies and clinical trials; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; • events affecting our existing in-license agreements and any future collaborations or other strategic transactions, commercial agreements and grants; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • decreased coverage and changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • announcements concerning other financing activities; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility or declines in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 4, 2008, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5 percent or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 60% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. 44 Table of Contents Investors may incur substantial dilution as a result of future equity issuances, and, as a result, our stock price could decline. Based on our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital levels, we will have to raise substantial additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional financing, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Because we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business, among other things, we may conduct substantial additional equity offerings. These future equity issuances, together with the exercise of outstanding options or warrants and any additional shares issued under the CEFF or in connection with acquisitions or incentive programs, will result in dilution to investors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We expend substantial costs and management resources as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements has caused us to expend substantial costs and management resources and will continue to do so. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board approved a new auditing standard, Auditing Standard No. 5 in June 2007, and at the same time, the SEC issued guidance for management for complying with the requirements of Section 404. This new auditing standard and the related management guidance provide a more risk-based approach to compliance and testing under Section 404. However, we still expect to incur substantial costs and to devote significant resources to corporate governance matters. If we, or the third-party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments relating to our periodic or current reports. 45 Table of Contents 