Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or growth prospects. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 17 Risks Related to Our Business Our success is dependent on the success of Silenor (doxepin). The majority of our resources are focused on the marketing and selling of Silenor. Our ability to generate revenue in the near term will depend solely on the success of this product. Accordingly, any disruption in our ability to generate revenues from the sale of Silenor or lack of success in generating Silenor sales will have a substantial adverse impact on our business. We will require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate planned activities or result in our inability to continue as a going concern. We began generating revenues from the commercialization of Silenor late in the third quarter of 2010, and our operations to date have generated substantial needs for cash. We expect our negative cash flows from operations to continue until we are able to generate significant cash flows from sales of Silenor. Based on our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital levels, we will need to raise substantial additional funds to finance our operations. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are responsible for the costs relating to the sales and marketing of Silenor in the United States. As a result, commercial activities relating to Silenor are likely to result in the need for substantial additional funds, including supporting the additional cost of the 25 field-based sales representatives we hired in January 2012. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • our success in generating cash flows from sales of Silenor; • the costs of establishing or contracting for commercial programs and resources, and the scope of the commercial programs and resources we pursue; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • the rate of progress and cost of any future non-clinical studies, any future clinical trials and other development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. In August 2011, we entered into an at-the-market equity sales agreement with Citadel Securities LLC, or Citadel. However, there can be no assurance that Citadel will be successful in consummating sales under the agreement based on prevailing market conditions or in the quantities or at the prices that we deem appropriate. Citadel or we are permitted to terminate the sales agreement at any time. At December 31, 2011 we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $10.7 million. We will need to obtain additional funds to finance our operations. Actual financial results for the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations could vary based upon many factors, including but not limited to Silenor sales performance, the actual cost of commercial activities and any potential litigation expenses we may incur. 18 In December 2011 we hired Stifel Nicolaus Weisel as a strategic advisor to assist us in identifying and evaluating strategies to maximize stockholder value by leveraging our rights in Silenor. The exploration of strategic alternatives may not result in any agreement or transaction and, if completed, any agreement or transaction may not be successful or on attractive terms. The inability to enter into a strategic transaction, or a strategic transaction that is not successful or on attractive terms, could accelerate our needs for cash and make securing funding on reasonable terms more difficult. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations or other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition to the amounts available under our sales agreement with Citadel, we intend to obtain any additional funding we require through public or private equity or debt financings, strategic relationships, assigning receivables or royalty rights, or other arrangements and cannot assure that such funding will be available on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional required funds, we may be required to delay, scale-back or eliminate plans or programs relating to our business, relinquish some or all rights to Silenor, or renegotiate less favorable terms with respect to such rights than we would otherwise choose or cease operating as a going concern. In addition, if we do not meet our payment obligations to third parties as they come due, we may be subject to litigation claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and distract management, and may result in unfavorable outcomes that could further adversely impact our financial condition. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, substantial dilution to existing stockholders would result. If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and specific financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investments. We will need to retain qualified sales and marketing personnel and successfully manage our sales and marketing programs and resources in order to successfully generate sales of Silenor. Prior to December 31, 2011, revenues we received from sales of Silenor largely depended upon the efforts of sales representatives employed by The Procter & Gamble Distributing Company LLC, or P&G, and Publicis Touchpoint Solutions, Inc., or Publicis. Because we did not believe that the growth of Silenor revenues throughout 2011 was sufficient to support sales and marketing expenses at then-current levels, we terminated our agreements with Publicis and P&G in December 2011 in an effort to conserve cash, and effective January 3, 2012, we hired a reduced sales force of 25 field-based sales representatives from Publicis as our employees to promote Silenor. We are now solely relying on our sales representatives to market and sell Silenor, and our sales in the short term may suffer as we make this transition and may continue to suffer in the long term if such transition is not successful. In addition, our strategy of focusing on an overall smaller, but more concentrated, geography may not be successful. The efforts of our sales force are complemented by on-line and other non-personal promotional initiatives that target both physicians and patients. We are also focused on ensuring broad patient access to Silenor by negotiating agreements with leading commercial managed care organizations and with government payors. Although our goal is to achieve Silenor sales through the efficient execution of our sales and marketing plans and programs, we may not be able to effectively generate prescriptions and achieve broad market acceptance for Silenor on a timely basis, or at all. If Silenor or any other product we commercialize does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from its sale will be limited. The commercial success of Silenor or any other product which we commercialize will depend upon the acceptance of the product by the medical community and reimbursement of the product by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of any approved product will depend on a number of factors, including: 19 • the scope and effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution resources and strategies, or those of our collaborators, if any; • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy and physician and patient understanding of differential indications for use, such as sleep maintenance; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of Silenor, a number of competitive products already approved for the treatment of insomnia or expected to be commercially launched in the future; • off-label substitution by chemically similar or equivalent products, including for Silenor the off-label use of higher-dose generic formulations of doxepin approved and available for the treatment of depression and anxiety; • prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • limitations or warnings contained in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-, or FDA, approved labeling of Silenor or any other product that we commercialize; • relative convenience and ease of administration; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If Silenor or any other product that we commercialize does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, or adequate payment and reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, we may not generate sufficient revenue from the product, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of Silenor or any other product that we commercialize may require significant resources and may never be successful. Restrictions on or challenges to our patent rights relating to our products and limitations on or challenges to our other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for Silenor and any other product candidate we develop or commercialize, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent rights that we have in-licensed relating to Silenor are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us. In particular, we do not hold composition of matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of Silenor. Composition of matter patents on APIs are a particularly effective form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same APIs as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. The principal patent protection that covers, or that we expect will cover, Silenor consists of method of use patents. This type of patent protects the product only when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical or similar to our product for an indication that is outside of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive or similar identical product for off-label indications that are covered by the applicable patents. Some physicians are prescribing generic 10 mg doxepin capsules and generic oral solution doxepin for insomnia on such an off-label basis. In addition, some managed health care plans are requiring the substitution of these generic doxepin products for Silenor, and some pharmacies are suggesting such substitution. Although such off-label prescriptions may induce or contribute to the infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. 20 Because products with active ingredients identical to ours have been on the market for many years, there can be no assurance that these other products were never used off-label or studied in such a manner that such prior usage would not affect the validity of our method of use patents. Due to some prior art that we identified, we initiated a reexamination of one of the patents we have in-licensed covering Silenor, (specifically, U.S. Patent No. 5,502,047, “Treatment for Insomnia”) which claims the treatment of chronic insomnia using doxepin in a daily dosage of 0.5 mg to 20 mg and expires in March 2013. The reexamination proceedings terminated and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, issued a reexamination certificate narrowing certain claims, so that the broadest dosage ranges claimed by us are 0.5 mg to 20 mg for otherwise healthy patients with chronic insomnia and for patients with chronic insomnia resulting from depression, and 0.5 mg to 4 mg for all other chronic insomnia patients. We also requested reissue of this same patent to consider some additional prior art and to add intermediate dosage ranges below 10 mg. In two office actions relating to this reissue request, the USPTO raised no prior art objections to 32 of the 34 claims we were seeking and raised a prior art objection to the other two, as well as some technical objections. Each of the claims objected to by the USPTO related to dosages above 10 mg. After further review of the prior art submitted, the USPTO withdrew all of its prior art objections. We then determined that the proposed addition of the intermediate dosage ranges and the resolution of the technical objections no longer warranted continuation of the reissue proceeding. As a result, we elected not to continue that proceeding. We also have multiple internally developed pending patent applications. No assurance can be given that the USPTO or other applicable regulatory authorities will allow pending applications to result in issued patents with the claims we are seeking, or at all. Patent applications in the United States are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of issued patents to which we hold rights were the first to conceive of inventions covered by pending patent applications or that the inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, third parties may challenge issued patents to which we hold rights and any additional patents that we may obtain, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims, or could attempt to develop products utilizing the same APIs as our products that do not infringe the claims of our in-licensed patents or patents that we may obtain. When a third party files an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, for a product containing doxepin for the treatment of insomnia at any time during which we have patents listed for Silenor in the FDA’s Orange Book publication, the applicant will be required to certify to the FDA concerning the listed patents. Specifically, the applicant must certify that: (1) the required patent information relating to the listed patent has not been filed in the NDA for the approved product; (2) the listed patent has expired; (3) the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or (4) the listed patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the Orange Book-listed patents for Silenor or that such patents are invalid is called a paragraph IV certification. We have received notices from each of Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc., or collectively, Actavis, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Mylan, Inc., or collectively, Mylan, Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. and Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc., or collectively, Par, and Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Cadila Healthcare Limited (d/b/a Zydus Cadila), or collectively, Zydus, that each has filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. The notices included paragraph IV certifications with respect to eight of the nine patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. We, together with ProCom, have filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus. The lawsuits allege that each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus have infringed the ’229 patent by seeking approval from the FDA to market generic versions of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets prior to the expiration of this patent. In addition, we have filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus alleging that such parties have infringed the ’307 patent by seeking approval from the FDA to market generic versions of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets prior to the expiration of this patent. 21 Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013 and FDA final approval of the Zydus ANDA can occur no earlier than November 13, 2013, unless in each case there is an earlier court decision that the ’229 patent and the ’307 patent are not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, the other patents included in Orange Book have not been asserted against these parties. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Silenor being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. Such events could also significantly impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Certain pharmaceutical companies’ patent settlement agreements with generic pharmaceutical companies have been challenged by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission alleging a violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and any patent settlement agreement that we may enter into with any generic pharmaceutical company may be subject to similar challenges, which will be both expensive and time consuming and may render such settlement agreements unenforceable. In addition, legislation has been proposed by Congress that, if passed, would subject patent settlement agreements to further restrictions. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights is often very complex in nature, expensive and time-consuming, may divert our management’s attention from our core business and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely impact our ability to prevent third parties from competing with us. The patent rights that we have in-licensed covering Silenor are limited to certain low-dosage strengths in the United States, and our market opportunity for this product may be limited by the lack of patent protection for higher dosage strengths for which generic formulations are available and the lack of patent protection in other territories. Although we have an exclusive, worldwide license for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia through the life of the last issued patent to expire, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. In addition, although our in-licensed patent for the treatment of transient insomnia is scheduled to expire in 2020 and our patent relating to the food effect of Silenor is scheduled to expire in 2027, our in-licensed patent for the treatment of chronic insomnia is scheduled to expire in March 2013. Accordingly, in the absence of additional patents or other alternatives to obtain additional exclusivity rights for Silenor, a competitor could attempt to market doxepin for a chronic insomnia indication as early as March 2013. Furthermore, the patent protection in the United States for Silenor for the treatment of insomnia is limited to dosages ranging from a lower limit of 0.5 mg to various upper limits up to 20 mg of the active ingredient, doxepin. Doxepin is prescribed at dosages ranging from 75 mg to 300 mg daily for the treatment of depression and anxiety and is available in generic form in strengths as low as 10 mg in capsule form, as well as in a concentrated liquid form dispensed by a marked dropper and calibrated for 5 mg. As a result, we may face competition from the off-label use of these or other dosage forms of generic doxepin. Off-label use occurs when a drug that is approved by the FDA for one indication is prescribed by physicians for a different, unapproved indication. 22 In addition, we do not have patent protection for Silenor in any jurisdiction outside the United States. Others may attempt to commercialize low-dose doxepin in the European Union, Canada, Mexico or other markets where we do not have patent protection for Silenor. Due to the lack of patent protection for doxepin in territories outside the United States and the potential for correspondingly lower prices for the drug in those markets, it is possible that patients will seek to acquire low-dose doxepin in those other territories. The off-label use of generic doxepin in the United States or the importation of doxepin from foreign markets could adversely affect the commercial potential for Silenor and adversely affect our overall business and financial results. We have submitted additional patent applications for Silenor in the United States and outside the United States, but we cannot assure that these will result in issued patents or additional protection in the United States or other jurisdictions. We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures, reimbursement policies and regulatory proposals which, if not favorable to Silenor or any other product that we commercialize, could hinder or prevent our commercial success. Our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor and any other product to which we obtain rights will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Based on third party formulary data, we believe that 76% of patients in commercial health plans have coverage for Silenor. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • the ability to obtain a price we believe is fair for our products; • the ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. The U.S. Congress has enacted legislation to reform the healthcare system. A major goal of this healthcare reform law was to provide greater access to healthcare coverage for more Americans. Accordingly, the healthcare reform law required individual U.S. citizens and legal residents to maintain qualifying health coverage, imposed certain requirements on employers with respect to offering health coverage to employees, amended insurance regulations regarding when coverage can be provided and denied to individuals, and expanded existing government healthcare coverage programs to more individuals in more situations. Among other things, the healthcare reform law specifically: • established annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs, beginning in 2011; • increased minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010; • redefined a number of terms used to determine Medicaid drug rebate liability, including average manufacturer price and retail community pharmacy, effective October 2010; • extended manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 2010; • expanded eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133 percent of the Federal Poverty Level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • established a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; 23 • required manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50 percent point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning 2011; and • increased the number of entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective January 2010. While this legislation will, over time, increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, it also is likely to adversely affect our results of operations. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and/or requiring prior authorization by the state program. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional healthcare reform in the future. As a result of these or other reform measures, we may determine to change our current manner of operation or change our contract arrangements, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business efficiently or on the scale we would like and our ability to raise capital. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. Current healthcare reform measures and any future legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs may result in lower prices for Silenor and any other product that we commercialize or exclusion of Silenor or any such other product from coverage and reimbursement programs. Either of those could harm our ability to market our products and significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of our products. Managed care organizations are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and, in some cases, imposing restrictions on the coverage of particular drugs. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and costly, and it can take several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product and makes a decision with respect to coverage. For example, third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might market and sell. For any individual third-party payor, we may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain reimbursement on a similar or preferred basis to competitive products, or at all. In addition, many insurers and other healthcare payment organizations encourage the use of less expensive alternative generic brands and over the counter, or OTC, products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. The availability of generic prescription and OTC products for the treatment of insomnia has created, and will continue to create, a competitive reimbursement environment. Insurers and other healthcare payment organizations frequently make the generic or OTC alternatives more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic or OTC product to the patient is less than the net cost of a prescription branded product to the patient. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic or OTC product competitors and the prescription benefit policies of insurers could have a negative effect on our product revenues and profitability. The competition among pharmaceutical companies to have their products approved for reimbursement also results in downward pricing pressure in the industry and in the markets where our products compete. In some cases, we may discount our products in order to obtain reimbursement coverage, and we may not be successful in any efforts we take to mitigate the effect of a decline in average selling prices for our products. Declines in our average selling prices would also reduce our gross margins. In addition, once reimbursement at an agreed level is approved by a third-party payor, we may lose that reimbursement entirely. As reimbursement is often approved for a period of time, this risk is greater at the end of the time period, if any, for which the reimbursement was approved. 24 We may face additional challenges with regard to reimbursement which could affect our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize, including: • the variability of reimbursement rates likely to be caused by the use of miscellaneous drug codes and procedure codes may discourage physicians from providing Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize to certain or all patients depending on their insurance coverage; • the initial use of “miscellaneous drug codes” for billing Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize until such time as specific drug codes are approved could result in slow and/or inaccurate reimbursement and thereby discourage product use; • an increase in insurance plans that place more cost liability onto patients may limit patients’ willingness to pay for Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize and thereby discourage uptake; and • unforeseen changes in federal health care policy guidelines may negatively impact a physician practice’s willingness to provide novel treatments. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic or OTC products, our overall business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Further, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning reimportation of pharmaceutical products and safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeit drugs, the federal government and numerous states have enacted pedigree legislation. In particular, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect beginning in January 2015. Compliance with California and future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements will likely require an increase in our operational expenses and will likely be administratively burdensome. Generic pricing plans, such as those implemented by Wal-Mart, CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens, may affect the market for our products. In September 2006, Wal-Mart began offering certain generic drugs at $4 per prescription, and various other retailers including CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens currently offer generic drugs at similar prices. Some retailers have also offered certain generic drugs for free on a limited basis. These and many other retailers have significant market presence, and any decision by them to make generic analogs of our products available at substantially lower prices may have a material adverse effect on the market for our products and our ability to generate revenues from their sale. Even though Silenor received regulatory approval, it will still be subject to substantial ongoing regulation. Even though U.S. regulatory approval has been obtained for Silenor, the FDA has imposed restrictions on its indicated uses or marketing and imposed ongoing requirements for post-approval studies or other activities. For example, the approved use of Silenor is limited to the treatment of insomnia characterized by sleep maintenance difficulty. In addition, the FDA has required us to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, consisting of a medication guide. We are also required to complete a standard clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of Silenor in children aged 6 to 16 pursuant to the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, and to submit final results of this trial by March 2015. Any issues relating to these restrictions or requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve market acceptance of Silenor and generate revenues from its sale. The FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic drug products modify their product labeling to include stronger language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that the drug manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. Our approved label for Silenor includes warnings relating to risks of complex sleep behaviors. 25 In addition, in August 2011 the FDA requested that we provide information about the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties and adverse event profile of Silenor, including differences that might arise due to demographic factors, to enable the FDA to assess whether morning drug levels may remain high enough in some individuals or identifiable patient subgroups to impair driving to a degree that presents an unacceptable risk both to individuals and the public. The FDA’s request indicated that the same request was made to all sponsors of sedative hypnotic medications. Silenor is also subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. For example, the FDA may require modifications to our REMS for Silenor at a later date if warranted by new safety information. Any future requirements imposed by the FDA may require substantial expenditures. In addition, all marketing activities associated with Silenor, as well as marketing activities related to any other products that we promote, are subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that such activities conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. Such regulation and FDA review could require us to alter our marketing materials or strategy, incur additional costs or delay certain of our promotional activities. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, which apply regardless of the payor. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of Silenor or any other product, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunction, or exclusion of such products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory actions. Approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. The distribution of pharmaceuticals is also regulated by state regulatory agencies, including the requirement to obtain and maintain distribution permits or licenses in many states. Compliance with these requirements may require the expenditure of substantial resources and could impact the manner and scope of our distribution operations. If we fail to comply with applicable state regulations relating to the distribution of Silenor or any other product we market, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunctions, or other regulatory actions. We have implemented a comprehensive compliance program and related infrastructure, but we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. 26 If our operations relating to Silenor fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties, including fines; • require that we change the way the product is administered, change the labeling of the product or implement a new or amended REMS; • suspend regulatory approval; • impose requirements to conduct additional clinical, non-clinical or other studies; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. We rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for our commercial products, including services related to the storage and distribution of our products. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on one third-party service provider to provide key services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We also utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to e-detailing, sample processing, and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. We place substantial reliance on the third-party providers that perform services for us. If these third-party service providers fail to effectively provide services to us, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to successfully commercialize Silenor would be significantly impaired, or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. Our future reporting and payment obligations under governmental purchasing and rebate programs will be complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we will need to calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. The regulations regarding the reporting of such pricing information are complex. Our calculations and methodologies will be subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes to our calculations. In addition, because our calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations will involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with governmental reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. 27 We expect intense competition in the marketplace for Silenor and any other product to which we acquire rights, and new products may emerge that provide different and/or better therapeutic alternatives for the disorders that our products are intended to treat. Silenor competes with well established drugs approved for the treatment of insomnia, including Lunesta, marketed by Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., and the branded and generic versions of Sanofi-Synthélabo, Inc.’s Ambien and Ambien CR and Pfizer Inc.’s Sonata, all of which are GABA-receptor agonists, and Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc.’s Rozerem, a melatonin receptor antagonist. A number of companies are marketing reformulated versions of previously approved GABA-receptor agonists. For example, in November 2011, Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. received approval from the FDA for Intermezzo, a low-dose sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem. Transcept and Purdue Pharmaceutical Products L.P. have entered into an exclusive license and collaboration agreement to commercialize Intermezzo in the United States. Purdue has publicly announced that it plans to launch Intermezzo in the second quarter of 2012. Meda AB and Orexo AB launched Edluar, formerly known as Sublinox, a sublingual tablet formulation of zolpidem in the third quarter of 2009. ECR Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc., launched NovaDel Pharma, Inc.’s ZolpiMist, an oral mist formulation of zolpidem, in the United States in February 2011. In addition to the currently approved products for the treatment of insomnia, a number of new products may enter the insomnia market over the next several years. It has been reported that Neurim Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is seeking FDA approval of Circadin, a prescription form of melatonin that is already approved in the European Union and several other countries. Neurim also announced positive results from Phase 1 and 1b clinical trials for Neu-P11, a melatonin and serotonin agonist for the treatment of insomnia associated with pain. Alexza Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced positive results from a Phase 1 clinical trial of an inhaled formulation of zaleplon, the API in Sonata. In July 2010, Alexza announced that it was advancing this product candidate into Phase 2 clinical trials during the first half of 2011 for the treatment of insomnia in patients who have difficulty falling asleep, including those patients who awake in the middle of the night and have difficulty falling back asleep, but has not yet done so. Somnus Therapeutics, Inc. has announced positive results from two Phase 1 clinical trials and one Phase 2 clinical trial of a delayed-release formulation of zaleplon. Vanda Pharmaceuticals Inc. has completed two Phase 3 clinical trials of tasimelteon, a melatonin receptor agonist. Tasimelteon received orphan drug designation status for non-24 hour sleep/wake disorder in blind individuals with no light perception. Vanda has initiated Phase 3 clinical trials for tasimelteon to treat this disorder and plans to file an NDA with the FDA in the first half of 2013. Merck & Co., Inc. has completed Phase 3 clinical trials for suvorexant, an orexin antagonist, for the treatment of insomnia and has MK-6096 and MK-3697 in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of insomnia. Merck has announced that it plans to file regulatory applications for suvorexant in 2012. Several other companies, including Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, are evaluating 5HT2 antagonists as potential hypnotics, and Eli Lilly and Company is evaluating a potential hypnotic that is a dual histamine/5HT2 antagonist. Additionally, several other companies are evaluating new formulations of existing compounds and other compounds for the treatment of insomnia. Furthermore, generic versions of Ambien, Ambien CR and Sonata have been launched and are priced significantly lower than approved, branded insomnia products. Some managed health care plans require that patients try generic versions of these branded insomnia products before the patient can be reimbursed for Silenor. Sales of all of these drugs may reduce the available market for, and could put downward pressure on, the price we are able to charge for Silenor, which could ultimately limit our ability to generate significant revenues. The active ingredient of Silenor is doxepin, which has been used at higher doses for over 40 years for the treatment of depression and anxiety. Doxepin is available generically in strengths as low as 10 mg in capsule form, as well as in a concentrated liquid form dispensed by a marked dropper and calibrated for 5 mg. Some physicians 28 are prescribing generic 10 mg doxepin capsules and generic oral solution doxepin for insomnia off-label for insomnia. In addition, some managed health care plans are requiring the substitution of these generic doxepin products for Silenor, and some pharmacies are suggesting such substitution. Such off label uses of generic doxepin may reduce the sales of Silenor and may put a downward pressure on the price we are able to charge for Silenor, which could ultimately limit our ability to generate significant revenues. Upon the expiration of, or successful challenge to, our patents covering Silenor, generic competitors may introduce a generic version of Silenor at a lower price. Some generic manufacturers have also demonstrated a willingness to launch generic versions of branded products before the final resolution of related patent litigation, known as an “at-risk launch”. A launch of a generic version of Silenor could have a material adverse effect on our business and we could suffer a significant loss of sales and market share in a short period of time. We have received notices from Actavis, Mylan, Par, and Zydus that each has filed with the FDA an ANDA for a generic version of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets. The notices included paragraph IV certifications with respect to eight of the nine patents listed in the Orange Book for Silenor. We, together with ProCom, have filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus. The lawsuits allege that each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus have infringed the ’229 patent by seeking approval from the FDA to market generic versions of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets prior to the expiration of this patent. In addition, we have filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus alleging that such parties have infringed the ’307 patent by seeking approval from the FDA to market generic versions of Silenor 3 mg and 6 mg tablets prior to the expiration of this patent. Pursuant to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA final approval of the Actavis and Mylan ANDAs can occur no earlier than May 3, 2013, FDA final approval of the Par ANDA can occur no earlier than June 23, 2013 and FDA final approval of the Zydus ANDA can occur no earlier than November 13, 2013, unless in each case there is an earlier court decision that the ’229 patent and the ’307 patent are not infringed and/or invalid or unless any party to the action is found to have failed to cooperate reasonably to expedite the infringement action. At this time, the other patents included in the Orange Book have not been asserted against these parties. We intend to vigorously enforce our intellectual property rights relating to Silenor, but we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Silenor being launched before the expiration of the listed patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully generate sales of Silenor and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows, such events could also significantly impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition in the development and marketing of Silenor or any other product candidate to which we acquire rights from academic institutions, government agencies, research institutions and biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. There can be no assurance that developments by others, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, will not render Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing resources and experience; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • experience conducting non-clinical studies and clinical trials, and related resources; and • expertise in prosecution and enforcement of intellectual property rights. 29 As a result of these factors, our competitors may develop drugs that are more effective and less costly than ours and may be more successful than we are in manufacturing, marketing and selling their products. Our competitors may also obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights or seek to invalidate or otherwise challenge our intellectual property rights, limiting our ability to successfully market and sell products. In addition, manufacturing efficiency and selling and marketing capabilities are likely to be significant competitive factors. We currently have no commercial manufacturing capability and more limited sales and marketing infrastructure than many of our competitors and potential competitors. If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce our products in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products and may lose potential revenues. We do not manufacture Silenor, and we do not plan to develop any capacity to do so. We have a contract with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. to manufacture our future required clinical supplies, if any, of Silenor, and we have a contract with Patheon to manufacture our commercial supply of Silenor. We have also entered into agreements with Plantex USA, Inc. to manufacture our supply of doxepin API and with Anderson Packaging, Inc. to package Silenor finished products. In addition, in October 2006, we entered into a supply agreement with JRS Pharma L.P., or JRS, under which we purchase from JRS all of our requirements for ProSolv®HD90, an ingredient used in our formulation for Silenor. In August 2008, we amended our supply agreement to provide us with the exclusive right to use this ingredient and any successor product to ProSolv®HD90 in combination with doxepin, as well as the right to list the U.S. patents owned by JRS and covering ProSolv®HD90 in the Orange Book relating to Silenor. JRS also agreed to enforce any such patents listed in the Orange Book on our behalf. The term of the agreement runs through January 1, 2013, but it will be automatically extended for additional one year periods unless we terminate the license upon written notice at least 90 days prior to the end of the term. Either party may terminate the agreement upon written notice to the other party if the other party commits a material breach of its obligations and fails to remedy the breach within 30 days, or upon the filing of bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, or receivership proceedings relating to the other party. We also have the right to terminate the agreement if JRS no longer has any valid patent claim in the U.S. covering ProSolv®HD90 or any successor product to ProSolv®HD90 used by us in combination with doxepin. Each of the current patents listed in the Orange Book by us relating to Silenor expires in 2015. As part of the amendment, we made an upfront license payment of $0.2 million and are obligated to pay a royalty of less than 1% on net sales of Silenor beginning as of the expiration of the statutory exclusivity period for Silenor in each country in which a Silenor formulation containing ProSolv®HD90 or any successor product to ProSolv®HD90 is marketed, which with respect to U.S. sales of Silenor we expect to occur in March 2013. This royalty is only payable if one or more patents under the license agreement continues to be valid in each such country and a patent relating to our formulation for Silenor has not issued in such country. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to sell Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize or provide any product candidates to patients in our clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical trial program and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at significant additional expense or terminate the clinical trials completely. In addition, any delay or interruption in our ability to meet commercial demand for Silenor will result in the loss of potential revenues. 30 In addition, all manufacturers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is also likely to conduct inspections of our manufacturers’ facilities as part of their review of any marketing applications we submit. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Moreover, our manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulties related to their overall businesses and financial stability, which could result in delays or interruptions of our supply of Silenor. We do not have alternate manufacturing plans in place at this time. If we need to change to other manufacturers, the FDA and comparable foreign regulators must approve these manufacturers’ facilities and processes prior to our use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for production. Any of these factors could adversely affect the commercial activities for Silenor or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and required approvals for any other product candidate that we develop, or entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Furthermore, if our manufacturers failed to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including bulk drug substance, or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and we would lose potential revenues. We, Paladin or any other future licensee may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States, or our or their activities may not be effective or in compliance with applicable laws. We have licensed to Paladin the rights to commercialize Silenor in Canada, South America, the Caribbean and Africa. Silenor has not been approved for marketing in any jurisdiction outside of the United States. Paladin will be responsible for regulatory submissions for Silenor in the licensed territories and will have the exclusive right to commercialize Silenor in the licensed territories. Paladin’s New Drug Submission filing in Canada was accepted for review by Health Canada in February 2012, but there is no assurance regulatory approval will be obtained in Canada or any of the other licensed territories. We may license rights to Silenor or other future products to others for territories outside the United States in the future. Compared to a development and commercialization strategy for an ex-U.S. product that involves a third-party collaborator, the development and commercialization of such a product by us without a collaborator is likely to require substantially greater resources on our part and potentially adversely impact the timing and results of the development or commercialization of the product. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we or our licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. Any additional clinical studies that may be required to be conducted as part of the regulatory approval process may not corroborate the results of the clinical studies we have previously conducted or may have adverse results or effects on our ability to maintain regulatory approvals in the United States or obtain them in other countries. The time required to obtain approval might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval for Silenor. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval 31 could limit the uses of the product candidate and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales. Such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, any revenues we receive from sales of Silenor outside the United States will likely depend upon the efforts of Paladin or any other future licensees, as applicable, which in many instances will not be within our control. If we are unable to maintain our license agreements or to effectively establish alternative arrangements to market such products, or if Paladin or any future licensees do not perform adequately under such agreements or arrangements or comply with applicable laws, our business could be adversely affected and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We or any collaborator may not be successful in developing, receiving approval for or commercializing an OTC product for Silenor. In November 2011, we and P&G agreed that through the period ending on March 31, 2012, we would work together to evaluate the potential to develop and commercialize an OTC pharmaceutical product containing doxepin, including jointly developing a desired product profile for the OTC product and conducting market research on such product profile at P&G’s expense. During this period, we agreed not to negotiate rights in and to an OTC product with any third party. If P&G notifies us of its interest in negotiating for rights to the OTC product at any time prior to March 31, 2012, P&G will have the exclusive right to negotiate with us relating to such rights for 120 days from our receipt of the notice, or such longer period as may be mutually agreed by us and P&G. We cannot assure you that P&G will elect to negotiate with us with respect to OTC rights, that if P&G does not so elect that we will find another suitable third party interested in such rights, or that any such negotiations with P&G or another third party will result in a completed transaction or that such a transaction will be successful or on attractive terms. If we are unable to establish an OTC collaboration, we will require substantial additional funds, which may not be available, in order to develop and commercialize the product on our own. Even if we are successful in establishing a collaboration with P&G or another third party for an OTC product, we or such third party must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements regarding safety and efficacy of OTC products prior to selling the product, and we cannot give any assurance that any such OTC product will receive applicable regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our failure to successfully acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products and integrate them into our operations may impair our ability to grow. As part of our strategy, we may selectively evaluate products and product candidates that we believe may be a strategic fit with our business. Because we neither have, nor currently intend to establish, internal research capabilities, we would be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, university scientists and other researchers to sell or license products to us. The success of this strategy will depend upon our ability to identify, select and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. However, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; 32 • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited resources to identify and execute the evaluation, acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. These efforts could be costly and divert resources from our Silenor commercial efforts and the remainder of our business. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any products that we develop or approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or produced profitably, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, together with our collaborators, to manufacture, market and sell Silenor or any other product candidates that we develop and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are operating. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our operations may give rise to claims that our products infringe the patent rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If our products, proprietary technologies or their uses infringe any of these intellectual property rights, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the intellectual property rights holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; 33 • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the substantial number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. We depend on a limited number of wholesaler customers for the retail distribution of Silenor, and if we lose significant wholesaler customers, our business could be harmed. Our customers for our Silenor product include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and major drug chains. The loss of any of these companies as a wholesaler customer or a material reduction in their purchases or in the prices they are willing to pay for our products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Materials necessary to manufacture Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop or commercialize may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay development and commercialization. Although we have contracted with suppliers of doxepin and other key raw materials for Silenor, we largely rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the other materials necessary to produce our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials for Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize, there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate sales revenues. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our non-clinical studies or clinical trials of any other product candidate that we develop, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed or suspended, significantly impacting our development programs. Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by Silenor or any other product candidate that we develop could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials, result in the denial or suspension of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. Any of these occurrences could delay or prevent us from continuing to sell Silenor or from commercializing any product candidate that we develop. In addition, the FDA may require, or we may undertake, additional clinical trials to support the safety profile of Silenor or any proposed changes to the labeling for Silenor. Silenor will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise. For example, in August 2011 the FDA requested that we provide information about the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties and adverse event profile of Silenor, including differences that might arise due to demographic factors, to enable the FDA to assess whether morning drug levels may remain high enough in some individuals or identifiable patient subgroups to impair driving to a degree that presents an unacceptable risk both to individuals and the public. The FDA’s request indicated that the same request was made to all sponsors of sedative hypnotic medications. With the use of any marketed drug by a wide patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself, and only if the specific event occurs with some regularity over a period of time does the drug become suspect as having a causal relationship to the adverse event. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. 34 In addition, if we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by Silenor or any other product candidate that we commercialize: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of the product or implement a new or amended REMS; • we may be subject to related liability; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the affected product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. We have licensed Silenor from a third party. If we default on any of our obligations under that license, or if the licensor exercises a right to terminate the license, we could lose rights to Silenor. We in-licensed rights to Silenor through an exclusive licensing arrangement, and we may enter into similar licenses in the future. Under our license agreement for Silenor, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize Silenor. In addition, our licensor for Silenor has the contractual right to terminate the license agreement upon the breach by or a specified insolvency event involving us. In the event that our licensor for Silenor terminates the license agreement, even though we would maintain ownership of our clinical data and the other intellectual property we have developed relating to Silenor, we would be unable to continue our commercialization activities relating to Silenor and our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. We may experience difficulties in managing growth. We have increased our headcount from 5 full-time employees at January 1, 2010 to 36 full-time employees as of February 15, 2012, including our field-based sales representatives. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support the growth in our number of employees. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage our commercial efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties and complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and • attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks to achieve our commercial goals. 35 We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product and may have to limit its commercialization. The sale of approved products and the use of product candidates by us in clinical trials expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability or lack of commercial rationale to continue development or commercial activities relating to Silenor or any other product candidate we develop. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for commercial product sales of Silenor, including coverage for product liability claims, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us at all or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, scientific, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development or commercialization objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. We are highly dependent on the product acquisition, development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our senior management. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management team or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, we have advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical, regulatory and commercialization strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development or commercialization of products that may compete with ours. 36 Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any future product candidates we develop, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. Even though Silenor has received regulatory approval, before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any other product candidate we develop, we must demonstrate through clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. The results from clinical trials that we complete may not be predictive of results obtained in future clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. If any product candidate that we develop is not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, or if the FDA does not deem the product candidate to be sufficiently safe and effective to warrant marketing approval, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, specialty pharma or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements Capital raising activities, such as issuing securities, incurring debt, assigning receivables or royalty rights or entering into collaborations or other strategic transactions, may cause dilution to existing stockholders or a reduction in our stock price, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights and may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Based on our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital levels, we will need to raise substantial additional funds. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Because we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business, among other things, we may conduct substantial equity offerings. For example, in August 2011 we entered into the sales agreement with Citadel pursuant to which we agreed to sell, at our option, up to an aggregate of $30.0 million in shares of our common stock through Citadel, as sales agent, of which we have sold $0.8 million to date. Sales of the common stock made pursuant to the sales agreement, if any, will be made on the NASDAQ Stock Market under our currently-effective Registration Statements on Form S-3 by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions at then-prevailing market prices. Additionally, under the terms of the sales agreement, we may also sell shares of our common stock through Citadel, on the NASDAQ Stock Market or otherwise, at negotiated prices or at prices related to the prevailing market price. However, there can be no assurance that Citadel will be successful in consummating such sales based on prevailing market conditions or in the quantities or at the prices that we deem appropriate. We will not be able to make sales of our common stock pursuant to the sales agreement unless certain conditions are met, which include the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Citadel under the sales agreement; compliance with laws, and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On December 13, 2011, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, informing us that because the closing bid price of our common stock listed on Nasdaq was below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, we did not comply with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). If compliance is not demonstrated within the applicable timeframe, Nasdaq will notify us that our securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Citadel or we are permitted to terminate the sales agreement at any time. Sales of shares pursuant to the sales agreement will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our existing stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. To the extent that we raise any required additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any such dilution of the holdings of our current stockholders may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Any debt, receivables or royalty financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations or conditions that require repayment. Equity financing, debt financing, receivables assignments, royalty interest assignments and other types of financing are often coupled with an additional equity component, such as warrants to purchase stock. To the extent that any of our outstanding warrants or additional warrants that we may issue in the future, are exercised by their holders, dilution of our existing stockholders’ ownership interests will result. 37 In December 2011 we hired Stifel Nicolaus Weisel as a strategic advisor to assist us in identifying and evaluating strategies to maximize stockholder value by leveraging our rights in Silenor. The exploration of strategic alternatives may not result in any agreement or transaction and, if completed, any agreement or transaction may not be successful or on attractive terms. The inability to enter into a strategic transaction, or a strategic transaction that is not successful or on attractive terms, could accelerate our needs for cash and make securing funding on reasonable terms more difficult. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations or other strategic transactions, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, rules and regulations of the SEC or other regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to conduct certain types of financing activities, or may affect the timing of and the amounts we can raise by undertaking such activities. For example, under current SEC regulations, because the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or our public float, is less than $75 million, the amount that we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using one or more registration statements on Form S-3 is limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. We may not be able to sell shares of our common stock under our equity sales agreement with Citadel at times, prices or quantities that we desire and if such sales do occur, they may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. In August 2011, we entered into the sales agreement with Citadel. Under the terms of the sales agreement, Citadel will use its commercially reasonable efforts to sell shares of our common stock designated by us. However, there can be no assurance that Citadel will be successful in consummating such sales based on prevailing market conditions or in the quantities or at the prices that we deem appropriate. In addition, we will not be able to make sales of our common stock pursuant to the sales agreement unless certain conditions are met, which include the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Citadel under the sales agreement; compliance with laws; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On December 13, 2011, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, informing us that because the closing bid price of our common stock listed on Nasdaq was below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, we did not comply with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). If compliance is not demonstrated within the applicable timeframe, Nasdaq will notify us that our securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, Citadel is permitted to terminate the sales agreement at any time. If we are unable to access funds through sales under the sales agreement, or it is terminated by Citadel, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Should we sell shares pursuant to the sales agreement, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our existing stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we sell shares under the sales agreement at a time when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. During 2011, we sold an aggregate of 786,825 shares of our common stock and received gross proceeds of $0.8 million, and paid $0.3 million of legal and accounting fees associated with the execution of the sales agreement and commissions. We have never been profitable and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We only began generating revenues from the commercialization of Silenor late in the third quarter of 2010, we have not been profitable since inception, and it is possible that we will not achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $59.3 million for 2011 fiscal year, and have accumulated losses totaling $276.2 million since inception. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant revenues, or that we will ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues 38 grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain sufficient financial resources, including by raising additional funds when needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • the scope and effectiveness of commercial activities relating to Silenor or any other product that we may commercialize, alone or with a collaborator; • commercial activities of our competitors; • our entering into collaborations; • developments in our current intellectual property lawsuits with Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus; • any other intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • our addition or termination of development programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to development of any product candidate that we develop; • non-cash charges which we incur, including relating to share-based compensation; and • regulatory developments. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The use of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2011, we had generated federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $234.1 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $226.1 million, the majority of which were generated in California. As of December 31, 2011, we had generated federal research and development tax credits of $4.3 million and California research and development tax credits of $2.0 million. Both federal net operating loss carryforwards and federal research and development tax credits have a 20-year carryforward period and begin to expire in 2023 and 2024, respectively. California net operating loss carryforwards have up to a 20-year carryforward period, depending on the date of origin, and begin to expire in 2013; however, California has currently suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards to offset taxable income. California research and development tax credits have no expiration. Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, annual use of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards will be limited in the event a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50 percent occurs within a three-year period. We determined that such an ownership change occurred as of March 31, 2010 as a result of various stock issuances used to finance our development activities. This ownership change resulted in limitations on the utilization of our tax attributes, including our net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. A portion of the remaining net operating losses limited by Section 382 becomes available for use each year. 39 If there are additional changes in ownership, then additional net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credit carryovers could be eliminated or restricted. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations and liquidity could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Domestic and international equity and debt markets have experienced and may continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil based on domestic and international economic conditions and concerns. In the event these economic conditions and concerns continue or worsen and the markets continue to remain volatile, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may decline. In addition, our investment securities consist primarily of money market funds and corporate and United States government agency notes. While we do not believe that our investment securities have significant risk of default or illiquidity, we cannot provide absolute assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If economic instability continues and the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investments through impairment charges. We also maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are not federally insured, and we cannot provide assurance that we will not experience losses on these investments. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock There may not be a viable public market for our common stock, and market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in December 2005, and an active trading market may not develop or be sustained. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to support operations and finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our initial public offering on December 15, 2005 through December 31, 2011, the trading prices for our common stock have ranged from a high of $21.24 to a low of $0.18. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • events affecting our existing license agreements, and any future collaborations or other strategic transactions, commercial agreements and grants; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors; • developments in our current intellectual property lawsuits with Actavis, Mylan, Par and Zydus; • any other intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory approval or other changes in the regulatory status of our products or product candidates; • decreased coverage and changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • our ability to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market; 40 • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • announcements concerning financing activities; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors” could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility or declines in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to comply with the minimum requirements for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline. Our stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must meet specific quantitative standards, including maintaining a minimum bid price of $1.00 for our common stock, a public float of $1.0 million, and either $2.5 million in stockholders equity or a market capitalization of $35 million. On December 13, 2011, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq informing us that because the closing bid price for our common stock had been below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, we did not comply with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We have until June 11, 2012 to regain compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirements by having the closing bid price of our common stock be at least $1.00 for at least 10 consecutive trading days. If we do not regain compliance within this time period but comply with all continued listing standards other than the closing bid price requirement, we may provide Nasdaq with written notice of our intention to cure the deficiency during a second compliance period of up to 180 days. If the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq believes that we will be able to cure the deficiency during such additional period, it will grant us such period to do so. If compliance is not demonstrated within the applicable compliance period, Nasdaq will notify us that our securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. However, we may appeal Nasdaq’s determination to delist our securities to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel. During any appeal process, shares of our common stock would continue to trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading, if any, in our shares may continue to be conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or in a non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market, such as the “pink sheets.” Delisting of our shares would result in limited release of the market price of those shares and limited analyst coverage and could restrict investors’ interest in our securities. Also, a delisting could have a material adverse effect on the trading market and prices for our shares and our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. In addition, if our shares were not listed and the trading price of our shares was less than $5.00 per share, our shares could be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act which, among other things, requires that broker/dealers satisfy special sales practice requirements, including making individualized written suitability determinations and receiving a purchaser’s written consent prior to any transaction. In such case, our securities could also be deemed to be a “penny stock” under the Securities Enforcement and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which would require additional disclosure in connection with trades in those shares, including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. Such requirements could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital in an already challenging capital market. 41 If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of February 15, 2012, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 35% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would likely be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. If we are unable to maintain an effective registration statement for the resale of shares under our July 2009 private placement, or if we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, we may be required to pay liquidated damages. In July 2009, we issued 5.1 million shares of common stock and seven-year warrants to purchase up to 5.1 million additional shares of common stock, exercisable in cash or by net exercise at a price of $1.155 per share. In connection with the private placement, we agreed to register for resale both the shares of common stock purchased by the investors and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The resale registration statement was filed and declared effective by the SEC in August 2009. We also agreed to other customary obligations regarding registration, including matters relating to indemnification, maintenance of the registration statement and payment of expenses. We may be liable for liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement or the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Nasdaq Global Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange, in each case for a period of ten consecutive days or for more than thirty days in any 365-day period. The amount of the liquidated damages is one percent per applicable ten or thirty day period, subject to an aggregate maximum of eight percent per calendar year, of the aggregate purchase price of the common stock purchased in the private placement then held by each investor that are registrable securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15 percent of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We expend substantial costs and management resources as a result of laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements has caused us to expend substantial costs and management resources and will continue to do so. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or as executive officers. In June 2007, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board approved Auditing Standard No. 5, and at the same time, the SEC issued guidance for management for complying with the requirements of Section 404. This auditing standard and the related management guidance provides a more risk-based approach to compliance and testing under Section 404. However, we still do and expect to continue to incur substantial costs and to devote significant resources to corporate governance matters. 42 We are also subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access, and the SEC has since issued final rules implementing “say on pay” measures. Our efforts to comply with corporate governance and related requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. If we, or the third-party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with Section 404 and the other corporate governance laws and regulations applicable to us, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot complete any required attestation of our evaluation of our internal controls in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments relating to our periodic or current reports. 